Article(s) with "frustrated" in the content:
---------------------------------------------
Article 16 | Date: January 13, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Majority of Americans support next president pushing tighter gun laws: poll |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Half of all Americans support President Barack Obama’s executive actions on gun control, a Reuters/Ipsos poll found on Tuesday, with a majority saying they would support the next president taking additional steps to tighten federal gun laws. Obama, frustrated with inaction from lawmakers, ordered stricter gun rules last week that he can impose without Congress’ help, angering Republicans who say he is overstepping the boundaries of his office. Fifty percent of those surveyed said they supported Obama’s executive actions. More than 80 percent of those from his own party said they were in favor of his steps, while 72 percent of Republicans opposed them and said his successor should try to dismantle them. Guns have become a potent, polarizing issue in U.S. politics. The Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution guarantees the right to bear arms, a right that is fiercely defended. Congress has not approved major gun-control legislation since the 1990s. Respondents from both parties support more research into the causes of gun violence, the poll showed. Nearly 80 percent of Democrats and 66 percent of Republicans said they would support the next president, who takes office next January after the Nov. 8 election, pushing for more research. Republicans are split on efforts to tighten gun control more broadly. Forty-four percent of those polled said the next president should work to tighten federal gun control laws, while 49 percent were opposed. Sixty-three percent of Americans overall said they would like to see the next president push for stricter gun laws. The survey of 1,559 Americans was conducted from Jan. 8 to 12, with a credibility interval of 3.2 percentage points. |

Article 280 | Date: February 3, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: House Speaker Ryan urges conservative unity in election year |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan on Wednesday called on his fellow conservatives to unify in an election year, warning them to refrain from the kind of infighting that frustrated and eventually drove out his predecessor, the more moderate John Boehner. Ryan, in remarks to Heritage Action, one of the influential conservative groups that vexed Boehner with constant demands for more spending curbs and smaller government, said divisions among Republicans played into the hands of Democrats. “Let’s not fight over tactics. Don’t impugn people’s motives,” said Ryan, the Wisconsin congressman who took over the top post in the Republican-dominated U.S. House of Representatives last October. But as he spoke, discontent was brewing among conservative Republicans in the House over the U.S. budget for the coming year. Late last year, more than 160 Republicans out of 246 voted against a two-year budget deal Boehner reached with the administration of Democratic President Barack Obama. On Wednesday, Ryan did not mention Boehner by name. He urged conservatives not to use their disagreements, including over appropriations, as a litmus test for supporting each other. “It’s fine if you disagree ... But we can’t let how someone votes on an amendment to an appropriations bill define what it means to be a conservative,” Ryan said. He cautioned conservatives against standing in “a circular firing squad.”  Heritage Action is an affiliate of the conservative Heritage Foundation research group. Boehner blamed such outside groups for pushing him into a 16-day government shutdown in 2013. He retired last September, weary from fighting with more conservative members who have increased their numbers in the chamber in the past few years. Ryan could soon see Republican unity tested over decisions  on fiscal policy, also a theme in the campaign for the November presidential election. The budget deal reached late last year exceeded strict spending caps by $80 billion over two years, to pump up defense and domestic programs. It is to be used as a framework for budget and appropriations legislation this year. Members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus did not vote for it. Ryan, trying to allay concerns, hosted the Freedom Caucus in his office Tuesday evening for “‘budget and beers,’” a spokeswoman said. Freedom Caucus member Representative John Fleming of Louisiana said the meeting was cordial, with Ryan listening to the group’s objections to higher spending. “We didn’t walk out with any agreements,” Fleming said. Also on Tuesday, Obama and Ryan had their first formal meeting as they search for areas where they may be able to overcome policy differences. |

Article 617 | Date: February 25, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Factbox: The race to the U.S. presidential nominations: How delegates are selected |
 | Content: (Reuters) - The nominating contests that will determine the Democratic and Republican nominees for the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election are about to enter a critical phase. On March 1, known as Super Tuesday, primaries or caucuses will be held in about a dozen states, and they could be turning points in both parties. But the key to winning the nomination for each party is ultimately not about the popular vote. It is about securing the number of delegates needed to win the nomination at each party’s convention - July 18-21 in Cleveland for the Republicans and July 25-28 in Philadelphia for the Democrats. Like so many things in politics, there are twists and turns in how the popular vote is used to ultimately select each party’s candidate. The following is a guide to the nominating process: Q: Is the delegate selection process the same for the Republican and Democratic parties? A: No. The parties set their own rules. One thing that is the same is that at each party convention, a candidate only needs to reach a simple majority of the delegate votes to win the nomination. Q: How many delegates are there? A: The Democratic convention will be attended by about 4,763 delegates, with 2,382 delegates needed to win the nomination. The Republican convention will be attended by 2,472 delegates, with 1,237 delegates needed to win. Q: I keep hearing about “superdelegates.” Are they different from other delegates? Do both the Republicans and Democrats have superdelegates? A: Superdelegates, officially known as unpledged delegates, are a sort of wild card in the nominating process, but only the Democrats have them. The category was created for the 1984 Democratic convention, and according to political scientists, they are a legacy of the 1980 convention when there was a fight for the nomination between President Jimmy Carter, who was seeking a second term in the White House, and Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. Members of Congress were frustrated by their lack of influence, because delegates elected to support one candidate could not switch to support another. So Democratic members of the House of Representatives led an effort to win a role for themselves. That resulted in the creation of superdelegates. Unlike other delegates, superdelegates may change what candidate they are supporting right up to the convention. There is no fixed number of superdelegates because the group is defined by various categories whose members change from one election cycle to another. Here is who gets to be a superdelegate:  All Democratic members of the House of Representatives and the Senate; the Democratic governors; the Democratic president and vice president of the United States; former Democratic presidents and vice presidents; former Democratic leaders of the U.S. Senate; former Democratic speakers of the House and former Democratic minority leaders. Throw in the members of the Democratic National Committee and the former chairs of the DNC and you finally have the whole pool of superdelegates. Q: What about the other delegates? Do they get to choose which candidate to support? A: Both the Democratic and Republican parties send delegates to their conventions based on the popular vote in the primary elections and caucuses held in each of the 50 states. But the parties have different rules on how delegates are allotted to a candidate. The Democratic Party applies uniform rules to all states. In each state, delegates are allocated in proportion to the percentage of the primary or caucus vote in each district. But a candidate must win at least 15 percent of the vote to be allocated any delegates. The Republican Party lets states determine their own rules, although it does dictate some things. Some states award delegates proportionate to the popular vote, although most such states have a minimum percentage that a candidate must reach to win any delegates. Some other states use the winner-take-all method, in which the candidate with the highest percentage of the popular vote is awarded all the delegates. Other states use a combination of the two methods. States that use the proportionate method may instead use the winner-take-all method if one candidate wins more than 50 percent of the popular vote.  In addition, the Republican Party requires that all states with nominating contests held between March 1 and March 14 use the proportional method, meaning that all the states holding votes on Super Tuesday will have to award delegates proportionally.  Q: What happens to delegates if a candidate drops out of the race? A: Another good question, because we have certainly seen that happen this year. For the Democratic Party, in every state, delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. For the Republican Party, it varies by state. In some states, delegates are required to stick with their original candidate at least through the first ballot at the Republican National Convention. In some other states, if a candidate drops out, his or her delegates may immediately pledge to another candidate. There is also a middle ground in which those delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. Donald Trump     7      10             50               14      81 Ted Cruz         8      3              0                6       17  Marco Rubio      7      3              0                7       17  John Kasich      1      4              0                1       6  Ben Carson       3      0              0                1       4 Hillary Clinton  23    9                                19      51   Bernie Sanders   21    15                               15      51 **Winner-take-all Republican National Committee: here here Democratic National Committee: here Battlopedia: here,_2016 Vote for Bernie: here www.realclearpolitics.com here here www.demconvention.com/ |

Article 674 | Date: March 1, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Factbox: The race to the U.S. presidential nominations: How delegates are selected |
 | Content: (Reuters) - The Democratic and Republican nominees for the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election are decided in a series of state-by-state contests. The key to winning the nomination for each party is ultimately not about the popular vote, but about securing the number of delegates needed to win the nomination at each party’s convention - July 18-21 in Cleveland for the Republicans and July 25-28 in Philadelphia for the Democrats. The following is a guide to the nominating process: Q: Is the delegate selection process the same for the Republican and Democratic parties? A: No. The parties set their own rules. One thing that is the same is that at each party convention, a candidate needs to reach only a simple majority of the delegate votes to win the nomination. Q: How many delegates are there? A: The Democratic convention will be attended by about 4,763 delegates, with 2,382 delegates needed to win the nomination. The Republican convention will be attended by 2,472 delegates, with 1,237 delegates needed to win. Q: I keep hearing about “superdelegates.” Are they different from other delegates? Do both the Republicans and Democrats have superdelegates? A: Superdelegates, officially known as unpledged delegates, are a sort of wild card in the nominating process, but only the Democrats have them. The category was created for the 1984 Democratic convention, and according to political scientists, they are a legacy of the 1980 convention when there was a fight for the nomination between President Jimmy Carter, who was seeking a second term in the White House, and Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. Members of Congress were frustrated by their lack of influence, because delegates elected to support one candidate could not switch to support another. So Democratic members of the House of Representatives led an effort to win a role for themselves. That resulted in the creation of superdelegates. Unlike other delegates, superdelegates may change what candidate they are supporting right up to the convention. There is no fixed number of superdelegates because the group is defined by various categories whose members change from one election cycle to another. Here is who gets to be a superdelegate:  All Democratic members of the House of Representatives and the Senate; the Democratic governors; the Democratic president and vice president of the United States; former Democratic presidents and vice presidents; former Democratic leaders of the U.S. Senate; former Democratic speakers of the House and former Democratic minority leaders. Throw in the members of the Democratic National Committee and the former chairs of the DNC and you finally have the whole pool of superdelegates. Q: What about the other delegates? Do they get to choose which candidate to support? A: Both the Democratic and Republican parties send delegates to their conventions based on the popular vote in the primary elections and caucuses held in each of the 50 states. But the parties have different rules on how delegates are allotted to a candidate. The Democratic Party applies uniform rules to all states. In each state, delegates are allocated in proportion to the percentage of the primary or caucus vote in each district. But a candidate must win at least 15 percent of the vote to be allocated any delegates. The Republican Party lets states determine their own rules, although it does dictate some things. Some states award delegates proportionate to the popular vote, although most such states have a minimum percentage that a candidate must reach to win any delegates. Some other states use the winner-take-all method, in which the candidate with the highest percentage of the popular vote is awarded all the delegates. Other states use a combination of the two methods. States that use the proportionate method may instead use the winner-take-all method if one candidate wins more than 50 percent of the popular vote.  In addition, the Republican Party requires that all states with nominating contests held between March 1 and March 14 use the proportional method, meaning that all the states holding votes on Super Tuesday will have to award delegates proportionally.  Q: What happens to delegates if a candidate drops out of the race? A: Another good question, because we have certainly seen that happen this year. For the Democratic Party, in every state, delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. For the Republican Party, it varies by state. In some states, delegates are required to stick with their original candidate at least through the first ballot at the Republican National Convention. In some other states, if a candidate drops out, his or her delegates may immediately pledge to another candidate. There is also a middle ground in which those delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. Graphic on the delegate count: tmsnrt.rs/1QHZulM Graphic on Super Tuesday delegates won: tmsnrt.rs/1RABdg7 Republican National Committee: here here Democratic National Committee: here Battlopedia: here,_2016 Vote for Bernie: here www.realclearpolitics.com here here www.demconvention.com/ |

Article 781 | Date: March 6, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Flint becomes U.S. Democratic flash point, but residents want action |
 | Content: FLINT, Mich. (Reuters) - The Flint water crisis has united Democrats Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders in outrage, but some residents suffering through the city’s major public health scandal want more than talking points from the presidential contenders. As Flint becomes the focal point of the Michigan primary battle when it hosts a nationally televised debate on Sunday, residents want to see Clinton and Sanders push harder for funding to replace the city’s crumbling water pipes, pay for long-term medical needs and lower their water bills. “We don’t want our pain to be exploited as a political backdrop. We need more from both of the candidates,” said Nayyirah Shariff, a Flint resident and co-founder of the activist Flint Democracy Defense League who has met with both Clinton and Sanders. The crisis in Flint, a predominantly black city of 100,000,  was triggered when an emergency city manager installed by Governor Rick Snyder switched the city’s water supply from Lake Huron to the nearby Flint River to save money. The change corroded Flint’s aging pipes and released lead and other toxins into the water supply, exposing thousands of residents including children to high lead levels that have sparked serious health problems. The crisis has sparked national outrage and led to calls for Snyder to resign. Both Democratic presidential contenders have raced to condemn the water contamination and criticize Republican Snyder for a slow state response, linking it to broader racial and economic inequities. But Melissa Mays, who has suffered seizures since the contamination and has three children with elevated lead levels in their blood, said she has not gone to local events where Clinton and Sanders met with residents. “I’m not going to be used like that. I’m not going to be a token,” said Mays, founder of Water You Fighting For?, another activist group. “Do something first, then I’ll show up.” President Barack Obama declared a state of emergency in Flint in January, but lawmakers in Congress have been unable to agree on a funding package to replace aging pipes. The issue will get a full national airing from the Democratic presidential candidates in a debate in Flint scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. EST on Sunday.  Republican presidential candidates have steered clear of  Flint on the campaign trail, but when U.S. Senator Marco Rubio was asked about Flint during Thursday’s debate in Detroit he defended Snyder and said the “politicizing” of the crisis was unfair. The U.S. presidential election is in November. Both Clinton and Sanders, who are vying for support from black voters in Michigan and nationally, have highlighted the crisis in Flint as an example of racial and economic inequality. Clinton was quick to jump on the issue, sending aides to Flint to meet with local officials, visiting the city on Feb. 7 and pressing for adding the debate in Flint. She was rewarded with an endorsement from Flint Mayor Karen Weaver and several black pastors in the region. Sanders also waded into the controversy, quickly calling for Snyder’s resignation, but he did not visit Flint until Feb. 25, more than two weeks after Clinton. Clinton gets credit from some residents for her aggressive approach, even if some see it as political expediency. “She has certainly tried to bring a great deal of awareness to what has gone in Flint,” said Rev. Allen Overton, a member of the Flint-area Concerned Pastors for Social Action group and a Clinton supporter. “Sanders is trying to catch up.” The Rev. Dan Scheid of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Flint said the crisis raises questions about race and class - issues ripe for political exploitation. “The cynic in me would say there is an understandable level of opportunism taking place,” Scheid said. “But any attention the candidates can bring in putting this injustice in front of the country is helpful.” Keri Webber, whose entire family has been afflicted with an array of illnesses, including a daughter with lead in her bones, said she was frustrated by the parade of politicians expressing sympathy for Flint but taking few concrete steps to help. “The Democrats are trying to build a name off us, and the Republicans couldn’t tell you where Flint, Michigan, is,” Webber said. (In 4th paragraph, corrects original source of Flint water supply to Lake Huron)  (Editing by Paul Thomasch and Matthew Lewis) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 797 | Date: March 7, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Factbox: The race to the U.S. presidential nominations: How delegates are selected |
 | Content: The Democratic and Republican nominees for the Nov. 8 presidential election are decided in a series of state-by-state contests. The key to winning the nomination for each party is ultimately not about the popular vote, but about securing the number of delegates needed to win the nomination at each party’s convention - July 18-21 in Cleveland for the Republicans and July 25-28 in Philadelphia for the Democrats. The following is a guide to the nominating process: Q: Is the delegate selection process the same for the Republican and Democratic parties? A: No. The parties set their own rules. One thing that is the same is that at each party convention, a candidate needs to reach only a simple majority of the delegate votes to win the nomination. Q: How many delegates are there? A: The Democratic convention will be attended by about 4,763 delegates, with 2,382 delegates needed to win the nomination. The Republican convention will be attended by 2,472 delegates, with 1,237 delegates needed to win. Q: I keep hearing about “superdelegates.” Are they different from other delegates? Do both the Republicans and Democrats have superdelegates? A: Superdelegates, officially known as unpledged delegates, are a sort of wild card in the nominating process, but only the Democrats have them. The category was created for the 1984 Democratic convention, and according to political scientists, they are a legacy of the 1980 convention when there was a fight for the nomination between President Jimmy Carter, who was seeking a second term in the White House, and Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts. Members of Congress were frustrated by their lack of influence, because delegates elected to support one candidate could not switch to support another. So Democratic members of the House of Representatives led an effort to win a role for themselves. That resulted in the creation of superdelegates. Unlike other delegates, superdelegates may change what candidate they are supporting right up to the convention. There is no fixed number of superdelegates because the group is defined by various categories whose members change from one election cycle to another. Here is who gets to be a superdelegate:  All Democratic members of the House of Representatives and the Senate; the Democratic governors; the Democratic president and vice president of the United States; former Democratic presidents and vice presidents; former Democratic leaders of the U.S. Senate; former Democratic speakers of the House and former Democratic minority leaders. Throw in the members of the Democratic National Committee and the former chairs of the DNC and you finally have the whole pool of superdelegates. Q: What about the other delegates? Do they get to choose which candidate to support? A: Both the Democratic and Republican parties send delegates to their conventions based on the popular vote in the primary elections and caucuses held in each of the 50 states. But the parties have different rules on how delegates are allotted to a candidate. The Democratic Party applies uniform rules to all states. In each state, delegates are allocated in proportion to the percentage of the primary or caucus vote in each district. But a candidate must win at least 15 percent of the vote to be allocated any delegates. The Republican Party lets states determine their own rules, although it does dictate some things. Some states award delegates proportionate to the popular vote, although most such states have a minimum percentage that a candidate must reach to win any delegates. Some other states use the winner-take-all method, in which the candidate with the highest percentage of the popular vote is awarded all the delegates. Other states use a combination of the two methods. States that use the proportionate method may instead use the winner-take-all method if one candidate wins more than 50 percent of the popular vote.  In addition, the Republican Party requires that all states with nominating contests held between March 1 and March 14 use the proportional method, meaning that all the states holding votes on Super Tuesday will have to award delegates proportionally.  Q: What happens to delegates if a candidate drops out of the race? A: Another good question, because we have certainly seen that happen this year. For the Democratic Party, in every state, delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. For the Republican Party, it varies by state. In some states, delegates are required to stick with their original candidate at least through the first ballot at the Republican National Convention. In some other states, if a candidate drops out, his or her delegates may immediately pledge to another candidate. There is also a middle ground in which those delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates. Republican National Committee: here here Democratic National Committee: here Battlopedia: here,_2016 Vote for Bernie: here www.realclearpolitics.com here here www.demconvention.com/ |

Article 888 | Date: March 11, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Exclusive: U.S. labor powerhouse to launch anti-Trump ad campaign |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. federation of labor unions, will launch digital attack ads targeting Republican front-runner Donald Trump next week as part of a multi-pronged effort to derail the New York billionaire’s bid for the White House and dampen union workers’ enthusiasm for him.  Officials at the AFL-CIO, an umbrella group of 56 unions representing 12.5 million workers, told Reuters the ads will depict Trump as anti-union, and will appear on Facebook and Twitter.  The officials said the anti-Trump advertising effort would likely expand over the coming months. At the same time, an AFL-CIO affiliate organization will ramp up a door-to-door campaign to undermine the candidate in Ohio and Pennsylvania, key battleground states in the Nov. 8 presidential election. “Donald Trump has tapped into the very real and understandable anger of working people. But while he says he’s with America’s working people, when you look close, it’s just hot air,” AFL-CIO president Richard Trumka told Reuters. “Donald Trump is nothing but a house of cards, and once we educate people, the house of cards comes crashing down,” he said. Union leaders are increasingly concerned about Trump’s appeal to labor, typically a stronghold of the Democratic Party, because of his promises to scrap free trade deals that have led to manufacturing job losses in the United States. The AFL-CIO is entering the political fray several months earlier than in past elections, given the “unique cycle” created by Trump’s candidacy, spokesman Josh Goldstein said. The initial ads will be modeled after a text message blast that began Thursday featuring an image of Trump with a statement he made supporting “right-to-work” laws, which weaken organized labor by limiting their ability to collect membership dues. Several states have passed such laws, and the U.S. Congress has considered a similar measure.  “I like right to work. My position on right to work is 100 percent,” Trump said in a radio interview in South Carolina last month.  The text campaign on which the ads will be modeled featured a quote from Trumka, hitting Trump on right-to-work, and characterizing him as racist: “Donald Trump’s bigoted comments are bad enough. Now, he supports right to work. Tell him right to work is wrong for working people.” Trump has been widely criticized for describing Mexican illegal immigrants as rapists and criminals, and for proposing a temporary ban on Muslims seeking to come to the United States. The AFL-CIO declined to say how much the initial digital ads would cost, but the federation spent nearly $9 million in the 2012 election cycle on outside spending in addition to money given directly to candidates, according to Open Secrets data.  The AFL-CIO typically waits to endorse a presidential candidate until there is a de facto Democratic nominee. But Trumka, a former coal miner and leader of that union, has made clear he believes Trump in particular would be a disastrous candidate for workers. In a speech last week he called him a “bigot” and “anti-American.” An official representing Trump’s campaign was not immediately available to comment, but Trump has said repeatedly that he has support within unions.  National unions nearly always endorse Democratic presidential candidates but Trump has built his insurgent campaign in part on a mission that many unions share: scrapping international trade deals.  There are some signs Trump’s message is resonating beyond the 20 to 30 percent of rank-and-file union members that vote Republican, attracting political independents and even some frustrated Democrats.  At a recent picket outside a steel plant near Canton, Ohio, workers cited former President Bill Clinton’s support of the North American Free Trade Agreement more than 20 years ago as a reason why they may support Trump over Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton in a general election. “For a lot of us, it’s ABC - Anybody But Clinton,” Mike Newbold told Reuters. Clinton has said she evaluates every trade deal to make sure it protects workers and that she opposes one being finalized by the Obama administration. Her campaign said they are confident her plan to help struggling manufacturing areas will earn her support from union members.     AFL-CIO’s affiliate, Working America, has noticed Trump’s inroads with working-class Americans, and recently sent canvassers to talk to 1,689 likely voters with household incomes of $75,000 or less in Cleveland, Ohio, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to learn more about Trump’s appeal. “Working-class voters are up for grabs this time in a really significant way. These folks need good information, and we’ll fill that gap,” said Karen Nussbaum, executive director of Working America.    According to Nussbaum, workers said they were frustrated with politics and worried about the economy. Of those who had already settled on a candidate, 38 percent chose Trump. But more than half were still undecided. She said the results of that initial canvas would be used to guide a massive door-to-door campaign to have more than half a million one-on-one conversations with Ohio voters during 2016, to help them “make decisions that actually solve their problems as opposed to phony solutions.” Working America is adding staff to its offices in Columbus and Cleveland to support the operation, and will open another soon in Cincinnati, she said. Labor strategist Steve Rosenthal said that in every presidential election there is a sense that white, working-class union men could desert the Democratic Party. “But I think when all is said and done, when unions put their programs into gear, in person and one-on-one in homes and in their communities, union members will vote overwhelmingly for the Democratic nominee,” Rosenthal said. “Trump might have some appeal right now, but once you start to peel away his record - his manufacturing in China, his relationships with unions - he’s a pretty good target.”  (Additional reporting by Tim Reid in Ohio; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Alistair Bell) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 944 | Date: March 16, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Rubio ends White House bid after humbling home-state loss |
 | Content: MIAMI (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Marco Rubio suspended his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination on Tuesday, having lost his home state of Florida despite support from a party establishment worried about the rise of billionaire Donald Trump. “While this may not have been the year for a hopeful and optimistic message about our future, I still remain hopeful and optimistic about America,” Rubio, 44, told supporters in Miami after his projected loss to Trump.  It was a second straight disappointing week for Rubio. Last week in nominating contests in Michigan and Mississippi, he drew only single-digit support. A first-term senator, Rubio had been considered by many mainstream Republicans to be the last best option to defeat billionaire businessman Trump and U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for the party’s nomination for the Nov. 8 election. His voice strained and hoarse, Rubio did not launch the attack on Trump that many observers had expected, but instead seemed to rationalize the anger he said that led so many of his fellow Floridians to support Trump over himself. Rubio congratulated Trump but also took several veiled jabs at the real estate developer’s campaign tone, saying Republicans should not prey on fear and anger.  “From a political standpoint, the easiest thing to have done in this campaign would be to jump on all of those anxieties, to make people more angry, to make people more frustrated, but I chose a different route and I’m proud of it,” Rubio said.  In recent weeks Rubio had become more aggressive in attacking Trump. The personal insults appeared to backfire and Rubio later said he regretted them. After former Republican Governor Jeb Bush quit the race, Rubio drew some of his financial backers to his side. But it took weeks for him to win a primary, notching wins only in Minnesota, Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C. Supporters had encouraged Rubio to get out of the race before the Florida voting after he consistently trailed in opinion polls, arguing that losing to Trump in the primary in his own state would hamper his future in politics. Rubio has already said he will not run for re-election to his Senate seat. There has been speculation he could run for governor in 2018.  “History has shown Republicans never mind a second act and if a Trump candidacy fails, Rubio is likely to be the starting point the GOP looks to as it charts the way back from another White House defeat,” said Texas-based Republican strategist Joe Brettell. Rubio’s departure leaves three candidates in the race – Trump, Cruz and Ohio Governor John Kasich. Establishment Republicans will now likely give Kasich a hard look, since most oppose Trump or Cruz being the nominee. Once he announced he was suspending his campaign, there were cries of “No!” and “Don’t quit!” but most in the crowd had seemed to know what was coming.  Volunteers in T-shirts began to weep and hug one another. The rest of the crowd left the arena for the balmy night. |

Article 981 | Date: March 17, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Sergeant Bergdahl says 'fantastic' plan crumbled hours after leaving post |
 | Content: (Reuters) - U.S. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl had devised what he told a military investigator was a “fantastic plan” to leave his post so he could inform higher-ups about problems in the ranks, but that fell apart when he realized he took on more than he could manage. Bergdahl, 29, who walked away from his post in Afghanistan in 2009 and became a Taliban prisoner for five years, is facing a court-martial with a potential life sentence on charges of desertion and endangerment of U.S. troops. In a 371-page interview made public on Wednesday, Bergdahl said he was frustrated and concerned about the command at his post in Afghanistan, seeing it as incompetent, immoral and putting soldiers’ lives in danger. He devised a scheme to leave and travel by foot to a military command about 20 miles away, with his disappearance causing a full-scale search. When he arrived, he thought this would get him an audience with a general to air his grievances. “I came up with a fantastic plan,” he told the military investigator in 2014 about three months after his release. “I was seeing things heading in a very dangerous direction. So, I had to do something.”  He left at night and was captured the next day by the Taliban.   “By daylight, I will admit I was in over my head,” he said in the transcript released by Bergdahl’s lawyer Eugene Fidell, of an interview with Army investigator, Major General Kenneth Dahl, in 2014. At the end of the interview, Dahl mentioned desertion, AWOL and fraudulent enlistment offenses to Bergdahl but made no mention of the more serious charge of endangering U.S. troops, which carries up to a life sentence, according to the transcript.  At an evidentiary hearing in Texas in September 2015, Dahl said he did not believe Bergdahl should be jailed for what he did. He said Bergdahl was not a Taliban sympathizer and characterized him as an unrealistically idealistic soldier.  Dahl also said no soldiers directly involved in the search for him were killed. U.S. military prosecutors have said Bergdahl sneaked off his  post, resulting in a 45-day search that put soldiers’ lives at risk and diverted attention from the fight against the Taliban. Bergdahl was freed in a prisoner swap in May 2014 involving the release of five Taliban leaders held by the United States. The deal drew heavy criticism from Republicans. |

Article 1028 | Date: March 21, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump questions U.S. financial backing for NATO |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States should significantly cut spending on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump said on Monday, questioning a policy that has underpinned U.S. foreign relations for nearly 70 years.  Trump, whose worldviews have been rebuked by a section of the Republican establishment, made the comments as he unveiled a partial list of foreign policy advisers, who are relatively little known. “We are paying disproportionately (for NATO). It’s too much and frankly it’s a different world than it was when we originally conceived of the idea,” Trump said in an interview on CNN. “We have to reconsider. Keep NATO, but maybe we have to pay a lot less toward NATO itself.” NATO, now consisting of 28 members, was formed after World War Two as a Western military alliance against the Soviet bloc. The comments reinforced Trump’s relatively isolationist stance on foreign policy. The New York billionaire businessman has alarmed establishment Republican foreign policy thinkers with comments denigrating Muslims and Mexican immigrants, and with his vows to tear up international trade deals.  Announcing his foreign policy advisers in an interview with the Washington Post editorial board, he said the United States should not be “nation-building anymore,” adding that Washington could not afford to keep funding NATO at current levels. “We certainly can’t afford to do this anymore,” he said. Trump has said he is willing to work more closely with authoritarian Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose military intervention in Ukraine has increased tensions with NATO. Washington is the biggest contributor to NATO, and U.S. officials have long been critical of its European allies for not spending more.   NATO is planning its biggest buildup in Eastern Europe since the Cold War to deter Russia, helped by an increase in planned U.S. spending. “The happiest person hearing this would be Vladimir Putin,” said retired Admiral James Stavridis, NATO’s former Supreme Allied Commander Europe. “We are all frustrated with low European defense spending, but pulling away from NATO would be an extraordinary geopolitical mistake.”     Trump’s advisory team includes terrorism expert Walid Phares, energy industry executive Carter Page, international energy lawyer George Papadopoulos, former Pentagon Inspector General Joe Schmitz and former Army Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg. He said he would soon name more people helping him shape his foreign policies as part of the team, led by U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions, a Republican from Alabama who endorsed Trump last month.  “Taken as a group, it’s a fairly obscure set of individuals,” said Michael O’Hanlon, a national security and defense policy specialist at the Brookings Institution, adding he did not recognize most of the names on Trump’s list.  Trump, one of three remaining Republican presidential candidates for the Nov. 8 election, has been under increasing pressure in recent weeks to say who advises him on foreign and security matters. One hundred and twenty Republican national security experts who served in past presidential administrations have signed a letter saying they cannot support Trump and will work to ensure he is not elected. Phares told Reuters he began advising Trump on Friday. He previously served as a national security adviser to 2012 Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who has roundly criticized Trump. Phares said in an email he had not met Trump in person since last year. The others on the list could not be immediately reached to confirm their roles with Trump’s campaign.     Schmitz was Pentagon inspector general under President George W. Bush and worked for Blackwater Worldwide, a now-defunct private U.S. security firm whose personnel were involved in a deadly shooting that killed Iraqi civilians in 2007. Kellogg has considerable military experience, having served as chief operating officer of the Coalition Provisional Authority, the U.S.-run provisional government imposed on Iraq after the U.S.-led 2003 invasion under Bush. He has worked at CACI International, a Virginia-based intelligence and information technology consulting firm. Trump has vigorously criticized the invasion. Asked at a news conference about why he chose Kellogg despite his role in Iraq, Trump said: “I don’t have to agree with them but I have to hear different opinions.” According to the Post, Papadopoulos previously advised Trump’s former rival Ben Carson, who has now backed Trump. The London Center of International Law Practice’s Center website lists him as the head of its Center for International Energy and Natural Resources Law & Security. Page serves as a managing partner of Global Energy Capital, a private energy services company, the Post said. Sessions is not seen as an influential foreign policy or national security player in the U.S. Congress. He does not serve on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, although he is a member of the Armed Services Committee. Last week, Trump said in a television interview on MSNBC, which had been pressing him to name his foreign advisory team, that he relied on his own instinct. “I’m speaking with myself, number one, because I have a very good brain,” he told MSNBC. “I know what I’m doing. ... My primary consultant is myself.” |

Article 1241 | Date: April 7, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senator Lindsey Graham wants billions in emergency funds for Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senator Lindsey Graham said on Thursday he would seek an emergency appropriation of “multiple billions” of dollars to help Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon as they try to cope with the fallout from the war with Islamic State. Graham, who recently returned from a trip to the region, said the three countries are facing severe stresses as a result of the political and refugee crisis caused by the Syrian civil war and the overrun of parts of Syria and Iraq by Islamic State. “One thing I’m going to talk... about is an emergency appropriation that would help Egypt, Jordan and probably Lebanon to deal with the stresses they’re facing,” said Graham, chairman of the Senate appropriations subcommittee overseeing foreign aid. He said he also wanted money for Israel to help protect its borders, especially with Syria.  Graham said he expected opposition from budget hawks, mostly his fellow Republicans. He said he expected Democratic support, although he acknowledged deep concern from some, including Senator Patrick Leahy, the party’s leader on his subcommittee, about Egypt’s human rights record. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ousted former  President Mohamed Mursi in 2013 after mass protests against Mursi’s rule. Sisi then launched a crackdown on dissent, drawing allegations from rights groups of abuse, which his government denies. Sisi initially gained the support of millions of Egyptians, who saw him as a decisive figure who could deliver stability. But that support has thinned as the public has grown frustrated with unemployment and high prices. Graham said Egypt is too crucial an ally, to both the United States and Israel, not to bolster Sisi’s government militarily to fight terrorism, and economically, if he improves on human rights. A member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Graham said he would ask the Pentagon to approve Egypt’s requests for additional military equipment. “If al-Sisi did something that would be seen by me and others as a real serious move on the rights front, it makes it easier for a guy like me to help,” he said. Longer term, Graham said he wanted a “Marshall Plan” for the region, similar to what Washington provided to Europe after World War Two. “We need to think broadly as a nation about some kind of Marshall Plan for front-line states that would allow Egypt to have access to low-interest loans, preferential trade agreements and bolstering their civil society,” he said. |

Article 1385 | Date: April 19, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Apple refused China request for source code in last two years: lawyer |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) has been asked by Chinese authorities within the last two years to hand over its source code but refused, the company’s top lawyer told lawmakers on Tuesday in response to U.S. law enforcement criticism of its stance on technology security. The congressional testimony highlighted an issue at the heart of a heated disagreement between Apple and the FBI over unlocking encrypted data from an iPhone linked to last December’s San Bernardino, California shootings - how much private technology companies should cooperate with governments. Law enforcement officials have attempted to portray Apple as possibly complicit in handing over information to China’s government for business reasons while refusing to cooperate with U.S. requests for access to private data in criminal cases. “I want to be very clear on this,” Apple general counsel Bruce Sewell told Tuesday’s hearing under oath. “We have not provided source code to the Chinese government.” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying, asked about the comments, said she did “not understand” details of the situation. She did not elaborate. China’s Public Security Ministry did not respond to a request for comment. Apple has previously denied the accusation as a “smear” originating from the U.S. Department of Justice’s effort to force Apple to help unlock the iPhone 5c used by one of the two  San Bernardino killers, who were inspired by Islamist militants. The claim resurfaced in the hearing called by a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee to examine potential common ground between law enforcement and the technology sector in the  encryption debate, though more than three hours of testimony yielded little clear agreement. Captain Charles Cohen, commander in the Indiana State Police, repeated the suggestion that Apple has quietly cooperated with Beijing, which strictly regulates technology in exchange for access to its market.  But when pressed by Representative Anna Eshoo, a California Democrat, for the source of that claim, Cohen only cited news reports. “That takes my breath away,” a visibly frustrated Eshoo said. “That is a huge allegation.” The Justice Department had argued in the San Bernardino case that it would be willing to demand Apple turn over source code that underlies its products, though at the time it only sought the company’s cooperation in writing new software that would disable the passcode protections on the phone. Technology and security experts have said that if the U.S. government was able to obtain Apple’s source code with a conventional court order, other governments would demand equal rights to do the same thing. After winning a court order in February, the Federal Bureau of Investigation dropped its case against Apple last month when it said it had found a third party entity to help investigators hack into the iPhone used by gunman Rizwan Farook. On Tuesday, Apple and the FBI were making a second appearance in Congress since March to testify over law enforcement access to encrypted devices, a decades-old dispute between Silicon Valley and Washington that gained renewed life from the San Bernardino case. While that standoff underscored national security concerns posed by advances in technology security, the growing use of strong default encryption on mobile devices and communications by criminal suspects is handicapping investigators’ ability to pursue routine cases, law enforcement officials told the hearing. Apple and other companies defend the technology as integral to protecting consumers. The FBI relies heavily on the “services and specialized skills that we can only get through the private industry, and that partnership is critical to our success,” testified FBI technology official Amy Hess. Separately, the tech advocacy group Electronic Frontier Foundation sued the Justice Department in San Francisco federal court on Tuesday, seeking to force the disclosure of any secret orders from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court that may have forced companies such as Apple or Google to decrypt communications.   Thomas Galati, chief of intelligence at the New York Police Department, said his investigators had been unable to open 67  Apple devices from October 2015 to March 2016. Those phones were implicated in 44 violent crimes 23 felonies, including 10 homicides, two rapes, and the shooting of an officer, Galati said. The government has redoubled its efforts to use the courts to force Apple’s cooperation in cracking encrypted iPhones by announcing plans to continue with an appeal in a New York drug case. The secrecy surrounding the method used on the San Bernardino phone has prompted criticism from security researchers who said Apple and others should be made aware of the flaw, in accordance with a White House vulnerabilities review process that favors disclosure. But Obama administration sources have told Reuters the group that helped unlock the device has sole ownership of the method, making it highly unlikely the technique would be disclosed by the government to Apple or anyone else. “I don’t think relying on a third party is a good model,”  Representative Diana DeGette of Colorado, the committee’s top Democrat, said at the hearing. |

Article 1403 | Date: April 19, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump candidacy: Where some fear to tread others see a path to victory |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - He’s a successful businessman making his first foray into politics. He wants to secure the southern border with Mexico and dump global trade deals. And like Donald Trump, he wants to be the Republican establishment’s worst nightmare.  He’s Paul Nehlen, who has emerged as a Republican rival to Paul Ryan, the speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, in his home district in Wisconsin. Ryan, the most powerful elected Republican in the country, is the epitome of that establishment. While many Republican operatives fear Trump’s tumultuous presidential bid will hurt House and Senate races this year, a handful of candidates like Nehlen are embracing Trump’s message, although not always the man himself. A loss by Ryan or another high-profile incumbent would send shockwaves through the party and could prompt fellow establishment Republicans to rethink positions on advocacy of free trade and support for immigration reform. In New Hampshire, where Trump won the nominating contest, or primary, by 20 points, Jim Rubens, a former Republican state senator who has endorsed the billionaire businessman, is attempting to unseat incumbent Senator Kelly Ayotte.   In Arizona, another state Trump won, state senator Kelli Ward is challenging veteran Senator John McCain by talking up securing the border and courting voters at Trump rallies, although she has not endorsed the presidential candidate.      The dynamic of outsiders challenging establishment candidates is one that has been taking place within the Republican Party for several election cycles, but in Trump, the insurgency has a new, more popular face. Beyond the races in Wisconsin, Arizona and New Hampshire, it has played out in states like Alabama, where Jonathan McConnell greeted voters outside a Trump rally in Huntsville in a bid to unseat veteran Senator Richard Shelby, and North Carolina, where Rep. Renee Elmers, facing a challenge to her seat, said she had voted for Trump in that state’s presidential primary. But, unlike the anti-establishment wave that swept Tea Party-aligned lawmakers into Congress in 2010, these candidates do not appear to represent a new anti-Washington groundswell, suggesting there are limits to Trump’s brand of politics, which at times runs deep against Republican orthodoxy on issues such as trade and taxes. “I been surprised that there haven’t been any Senate or House incumbents that have lost primaries as a result of a groundswell of support for Donald Trump or Ted Cruz,” said Nathan Gonzales, an independent analyst on congressional races in Washington.  Shelby, for example, soundly defeated challenger McConnell in Alabama’s Republican primary race in March. “Other candidates could try to replicate his message, but no one can replicate Donald Trump,” Gonzales said. Still, many analysts and political operatives believe Republicans unhappy with Trump as the nominee won’t vote in the general election, potentially causing Republicans to lose their congressional seats to Democratic contenders. It would be easy, to dismiss Nehlen’s challenge to Ryan, who is popular among Republicans inside and outside of Wisconsin and has a large campaign warchest. A poll last month by Marquette University Law School showed him with more than an 80 percent approval rating among Wisconsin Republicans. But less than two years ago, Eric Cantor, then the No. 2 Republican in the House of Representatives, was also considered a rising Republican star. He suffered a shock defeat in the 2014 congressional elections in Virginia to an obscure conservative college professor, David Brat. Cantor, too, had looked unbeatable. “That race is what reinforced in my mind this is possible,” Nehlen said in an interview. Trump has frequently criticized Ryan for the $1.1 billion budget deal struck with Democratic President Barack Obama last December. And Ryan’s support of trade deals such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership and comprehensive immigration reform is squarely at odds with Trump’s positions.     Nehlen said those two issues motivated him to mount his challenge to Ryan, although he stopped short of saying he embraced Trump’s candidacy. Rubens, who is challenging Ayotte in New Hampshire, isn’t as restrained. “I admire his independence,” Rubens told Reuters.  Rubens, like Trump, calls for a fence along the southern border and for doing away with so-called “birthright citizenship,” a policy that grants anyone born on U.S. soil a citizen.  Ayotte, a first-term senator, was praised by conservatives when she ran in 2010 and was endorsed by former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin at the height of Palin’s popularity. But she earned their wrath when she backed immigration reform. She also frustrated moderates by voting against a bill that would block suspected terrorists from buying guns. Ayotte, Gonzales said, “is an example of someone who can’t come out guns blazing against Donald Trump. She needs every Republican possible in the state.” In Arizona, Ward is challenging McCain, the moderate who was the Republican presidential nominee in 2008, in a state where rancor over immigration issues runs high. Ward has said she supports Trump’s claim that Mexico was sending criminals to the United States. Mexico has ridiculed the allegation.     Ward has an opportunity. A poll released last month by the firm Public Policy Polling showed McCain with a 33 percent approval rating among Republicans in Arizona. |

Article 1507 | Date: April 27, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Judge rejects challenge to Arizona presidential nominating election |
 | Content: PHOENIX (Reuters) - A judge on Tuesday tossed out a legal challenge to a problem-plagued presidential preference election in Arizona, ruling that the woes at the polls were not due to fraud. Maricopa County Superior Court Judge David Gass said there were insufficient grounds for granting the request to void the results of the March 22 nominating election, which was marked by long lines and controversy.  In a ruling from the bench, Gass said there were glitches and possible missteps by election officials but that the results would not have changed. “Elections are human endeavors. They are never, ever perfect,” Gass said. “Glitches are always something that we need to wary of and we need to work hard, and we need to fix them.... But they don’t rise to the level of fraud.” Gass issued his verbal decision following a two-day hearing on the lawsuit brought by Tucson resident John Brakey, who alleged that election officials committed misconduct. The lawsuit argued officials improperly handled voter registration requests and permitted illegal votes to be cast in the election. He also said erroneous ballots were counted and the number of polling locations were inadequate. He sought a repeat of the election, easily won by Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump. Brakey’s attorney Michael Kielsky told Reuters on Tuesday night that he was disappointed in the ruling, but that it likely will not be appealed. The election brought widespread criticism to Arizona, which saw frustrated voters wait in line for as long as five hours to cast their ballots at a drastically reduced number of polls.  In a cost-cutting move, county election officials slashed the polling locations to 60, compared with 200 in the election in 2012.  Officials immediately took the blame for the mistake, saying the decision was based on past voter turnout and an increase in mail-in votes. The election also faces a separate federal court challenge by the state and national Democratic parties, along with the Clinton and Sanders campaigns. Justice department officials additionally have launched a probe into the handling of the election. |

Article 1534 | Date: April 29, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S., European trade negotiators battle political headwinds |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Facing deeply entrenched differences and political headwinds, the top negotiators trying to reach a sweeping U.S.-European free trade deal avoided agriculture, public procurement and other thorny issues in talks this week. Instead, Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Daniel Mullaney and European Commission lead negotiator Ignacio Garcia Bercera said on Friday they concentrated on less controversial areas such as small and medium enterprises and technical language. But both insisted after their 13th negotiating round in New York that they can still reach a deal this year before U.S. President Barack Obama leaves office in January. Mullaney said concerns over a June referendum in Britain over whether to leave the European Union would not slow efforts to reach a deal to boost trade, investment and job growth on both continents, and nor would anti-trade rhetoric from the U.S. presidential campaign trail.   “We’re confident that we can achieve that kind of an agreement and that when we do, later this year, it’ll be an agreement that the public on both sides of the Atlantic can support,” Mullaney said. Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump has said he would scrap the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal and has been especially critical of the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement for “destroying” U.S. jobs. Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, has also said TPP is unacceptable in its current form. “I haven’t seen a worse political environment for trade deals” negotiations, said Robert Vastine, a former president of the Coalition of Service Industries, who gave a presentation on services at a forum on the sidelines of the New York talks.   He said the sour environment was contributing to the slow pace of talks and a lack of enthusiasm for making concessions, particularly when any deal would need to be approved under a new U.S. president. In Europe, too, the political environment is challenging, with widespread opposition to allowing more imports of U.S. agricultural products over concerns about genetically modified foods, hormone-raised beef and fierce protection of local food-naming rules for items from Asiago cheese to Parma ham. A new survey released this week by the Bertelsmann Foundation showed waning support for a TTIP deal in both Germany and the United States. The poll, conducted by YouGov, showed that only 17 percent of Germans believe TTIP is a good thing versus 55 percent two years ago. In the United States, only 18 percent of those polled supported such a deal, versus 53 percent in 2014. France has voiced particular frustration at the lack of movement on the U.S. side. French Trade Minister Matthias Fekl this month suggested the talks should be scrapped absent further progress. John Wilson, senior vice president of the Dairy Farmers of America, told the New York forum that his cooperative of 8,500 farms would oppose TTIP unless U.S.-made cheese can break into Europe’s closely guarded naming rules, known as “geographic indications.” “We’ve been producing Asiago cheese for a long time. It’s a common name, it’s a generic name,” he said. European Commission agricultural negotiator John Clarke shot back that Europe would fiercely defend its geographical indications, including Asiago, from U.S. imports.   “You will certainly not be able to export Asiago from the USA to Europe. That’s absolutely impossible,” Clarke said. The services sector remains another problem area, with U.S. officials insisting Europe drop exclusions for some 200 sectors, and European officials frustrated at the U.S. refusal to open up its coastal maritime transport sector. The EU’s Garcia Bercera said he was mindful of the public debate in the negotiations. “We believe that the task is to convince public opinion in Europe and the United States that trade agreements are instruments to better manage globalization,” he said. |

Article 1551 | Date: May 2, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Clinton courts Appalachian voters to counter Trump on trade |
 | Content: WASHINGTON/CARMEL, Ind. (Reuters) - U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton met with coal and steel workers in the Appalachian region on Monday in an effort to win over blue-collar voters in a part of the country with strong support for Republican Donald Trump. The real estate mogul made his own pitch on Monday to voters in areas struggling from the loss of industry, telling a crowd in Indiana he would create “clean coal” jobs. Clinton has increasingly turned her attention beyond the Democratic Party nomination fight with U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders and is making early moves to try to siphon support from Trump ahead of a possible match-up in the Nov. 8 election. On Monday, she met union leaders and some of the 600 workers who were laid off last year when AK Steel Holding Corp announced it would idle a furnace in eastern Kentucky. She said jobs losses in manufacturing and the coal industry in the area had been a heavy blow. “Talk about a ripple effect. It’s just devastating communities,” Clinton told workers around a table at an Italian restaurant in the town of Ashland.  While the Republican presidential candidates focus on Tuesday’s primary contest in Indiana, Clinton launched a trip to Appalachia this week that will include events in Ohio and West Virginia.     She has a large lead over Sanders for the Democratic nomination. Unions typically back Democratic candidates, and union leaders have endorsed both Clinton and Sanders in the 2016 presidential race.  But Trump’s pro-coal, anti-trade message and outsider status has resonated with some blue collar union members frustrated with Washington politicians. He and other Republicans also accuse President Barack Obama’s administration of waging a “war on coal” by imposing strict environmental regulations. “I’m a free-market guy, but not when you’re getting killed,” Trump said at a rally in Carmel, Indiana. “Look at steel, it’s being wiped out. Your coal industry is wiped out, and China is taking our coal.”     The New York businessman won the Republican nominating contest in Kentucky in March, sweeping most of the counties in the economically struggling east of the state. Parts of Appalachia, a region that spans multiple states across the eastern United States, have struggled with poverty and job losses. West Virginia’s unemployment rate of 6.5 percent in March was well above the national rate of 5 percent, according to Labor Department data. Ohio’s unemployment rate was 5.1 percent, while the figure in Kentucky was 5.6 percent. It will be an uphill struggle for Clinton there if she wins the nomination. She has pledged more than $30 billion to help regions that depend on coal, but her promise was overshadowed when she said in March that the country would “put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business.” And her husband, former President Bill Clinton, campaigned on Sunday in West Virginia, encountering protests from Trump supporters.   West Virginia last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 1996, when Bill Clinton was running for his second four-year term. He is the only Democrat who has won Kentucky since 1980. Trump will take a leap toward winning the Republican nomination if he comes out ahead in Tuesday’s Indiana primary. His success in the race for the White House may well ride on the support of Republican evangelicals. Top rival Ted Cruz planned stops to greet voters across the state on Monday, running into a group of Trump supporters in Marion, Indiana who berated him. He deployed his wife, Heidi, and Carly Fiorina, the ex-candidate who Cruz has chosen as his running mate if he gets the Republican nomination, to a coffee shop and art gallery in Carmel, Indiana. Cruz, who lags Trump in delegates to the Republican National Convention in July, told reporters on Monday he would stay in the race “as long as we have a viable path to victory.” Republicans plan to tie Clinton to what they say is an anemic economy under President Barack Obama. Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus on Monday cited data released last week that showed economic growth slipped in the first quarter to its slowest pace in two years. “Struggling Americans will never get ahead under Hillary Clinton. They are going to keep getting taken to the cleaners,” Priebus said in an opinion piece for RealClearPolitics. |

Article 1755 | Date: May 17, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senate backs Fanning as Army secretary |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate unanimously backed President Barack Obama’s nomination of Eric Fanning as secretary of the Army on Tuesday, making him the first openly gay leader of a U.S. military service branch. Fanning was previously undersecretary of the Air Force and chief of staff to Defense Secretary Ash Carter. Fanning was confirmed by unanimous voice vote, eight months following his nomination, after Senator Pat Roberts said Deputy Defense Secretary Robert Work told him that it was now too late for the administration to transfer prisoners from the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to Roberts’ home state, Kansas. Work did not confirm Roberts’ account of that conversation, saying that no option was off the table. “I explained to Senator Roberts that we are trying to achieve the goal of closure with the support of Congress and we recognize that there is limited time left to achieve that support, both in terms of lifting Congressional restrictions and winning approval of funds to execute closure,” Work said in a statement.  Roberts had held up Fanning’s nomination for months to  underscore his opposition to any possible transfer of detainees. His opposition had frustrated fellow Republican John McCain, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee and a strong supporter of Fanning’s nomination. On Tuesday, McCain and Roberts appeared in the Senate together as Roberts announced that he had released his “hold” on Fanning and spoken to Fanning. McCain noted that this year’s National Defense Authorization Act ensures that the Obama administration does not have the authority to release or transfer Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. mainland. Roberts said Work told him during a meeting last week that he would be unable to fulfill an order to move Guantanamo detainees to the United States before Obama leaves office in January 2017. “The clock has run out for the president,” Roberts said. |

Article 2031 | Date: June 8, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Modi wants deeper U.S.-India security relationship |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a closer security relationship between his country and the United States on Wednesday, in an address to the U.S. Congress stressing the importance of warming ties between the two countries. He dedicated much of the speech to the importance of fighting terrorism, thanking Congress for U.S. support after a Pakistan-based military group’s rampage in Mumbai killed 166 people in 2008. “The fight against terrorism has to be fought at many levels. And the traditional tools of military, intelligence or diplomacy alone would not be able to win this fight,” Modi told a rare joint meeting of the Senate and House of Representatives. “We have both lost civilians and soldiers in combating it. The need of the hour is for us to deepen our security cooperation,” Modi said. He leavened the speech to lawmakers, the first such address by an international leader since Pope Francis’ in September, with jokes about Congress’ bitter partisan divide and yoga. But Modi used it to make serious points about India’s neighbor and arch-rival Pakistan and regional concerns about Chinese expansionism. “I commend the members of the U.S. Congress for sending a clear message to those who preach and practice terrorism for political gains,” he said, not mentioning either country by name.     Modi is on the U.S. leg of an international tour. On Tuesday, he met with President Barack Obama at the White House, where the two leaders said India agreed to work toward joining the Paris Agreement on climate change this year and discussed security and cyber security issues. The visit, two years after Modi became prime minister, capped an improving relationship between New Delhi and the United States. Before he was elected, Modi was barred from even entering the country because of concerns about his handling of 2002 riots that killed at least 1,000 people, mostly Muslims. Today, he is one of the international leaders most popular in Washington, where Modi’s government is seen as a counterbalance to China. He and Obama have a warm personal relationship. “We are now standing shoulder to shoulder in ways that no one could have imagined a generation ago,” Representative Eliot Engel, the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs committee, said at a reception for Modi after the address.  In a 45-minute speech interrupted by cheers and at least eight standing ovations, the 65-year-old Indian leader said deeper U.S.-Indian security cooperation should isolate anyone who harbors, supports or sponsors terrorists. Although he did not mention Pakistan, that line was greeted with applause from the lawmakers, many of whom are increasingly frustrated with what they see as Islamabad’s failure to crack down on militants behind attacks on American troops in Afghanistan. Modi also stressed that India is committed to helping rebuild a peaceful and stable Afghanistan. Amid heightened tensions over China’s assertive pursuit of territory in the South China Sea, Modi said a stronger U.S.-India partnership could boost peace and prosperity “from Asia to Africa and from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific.” He did not mention China. “It can also help ensure security of the sea lanes and commerce and freedom of navigation on seas,” Modi added. Democrats leaped to their feet when Modi referred to the recent climate change summit. But Republicans in the House chamber remained seated, reflecting the U.S. political divide over the issue. House Speaker Paul Ryan greeted Modi at his office before his speech. After the Indian leader’s remarks, he attended lunch with congressional leaders and a reception with members of the House Foreign Affairs and Senate Foreign Relations committees. |

Article 2132 | Date: June 14, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senators introduce bill aimed at getting generic drugs to market |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Four U.S. senators - two Democrats and two Republicans - introduced a bill on Tuesday aimed at preventing big pharmaceutical companies from using safety rules to prevent generic drugs from coming to market. Senators Charles Grassley, chair of the Judiciary Committee, and Patrick Leahy, the top Democrat, are sponsors of the bill along with Senators Mike Lee and Amy Klobuchar, the chair of the antitrust subcommittee and top Democrat, respectively. The Food and Drug Administration, which ensures the safety of the country’s food and drug supply, has a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy program, called REMS, which is designed to ensure that the riskiest drugs are dispensed safely. But there have been complaints that the program has been misused by brand-name drug companies to prevent generic manufacturers from getting the drug samples needed to market cheaper versions. Generic companies also complain their drugs are not allowed to share a safety protocol, making it difficult to come to market. The bill would allow a generic manufacturer who faces either of these situations to file a lawsuit to force access to a sample or force negotiations for a safety protocol. “Balancing the cost of developing lifesaving medications with the need to make available affordable prescription drugs to consumers has always been a difficult task. It’s a consistent topic at my town meetings,” Grassley said in a statement. “Unfortunately, we’re seeing some brand-name drug companies engage in anti-competitive tactics that delay entry of lower cost generic drugs into the market. This bill takes important steps to ensure that our laws are not frustrated.” There is a similar bill in the House of Representatives which addresses the same issue but uses a different strategy. For example, it requires the generic company seeking a REMS drug to get FDA authorization to obtain the sample. In one of the REMS disputes which is public, Mylan Pharmaceuticals filed a lawsuit in 2014 against Celgene Corp, accusing it of using REMS to prevent generic copies of Thalomid and Revlimid to market. The Senate Judiciary Committee’s antitrust panel will hold a hearing on its bill on June 21. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA, which counts major drugmakers among its members, said it had no immediate comment. The Generic Pharmaceutical Association was pleased to see the bill introduced. “It is worth noting and recognizing recent efforts by representatives in the branded industry to highlight the valuable role generic medicines play in driving healthcare system savings,” said Chip Davis, GPhA’s president. “Continued use of these anticompetitive practices by certain manufacturers drives the exact opposite outcome.” |

Article 2146 | Date: June 14, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. lawmakers disrupt Orlando 'moment of silence' over gun policy |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. House of Representatives erupted in shouting on Monday as lawmakers held a moment of silence to honor the victims of the Orlando mass shooting as Democrats protested the Republican-led chamber’s refusal to consider tighter gun regulations. After Speaker Paul Ryan, the House’s Republican leader, called for the moment of silence, Representative James Clyburn asked for recognition to ask about guns. Clyburn, the number three House Democrat, is from South Carolina, where a gunman killed nine people at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church a year ago on Friday. Ryan ruled Clyburn out of order, and the chamber erupted with shouts of “No Leadership,” and chants of “Where’s the bill? Where’s the bill? Where’s the bill?” from Democrats. Several Democrats had said they would not participate in a moment of silence to mark the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history, in which a gunman killed 49 people and wounded 53 at a gay nightclub in Orlando. They said they were frustrated that Congress does not respond to mass shootings with more than symbolic gestures. |

Article 2234 | Date: June 22, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Rubio seeks re-election to Senate, says Trump 'worrisome' |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio will seek re-election to his U.S. Senate seat, he announced on Wednesday, reversing a pledge not to run and saying the prospect of a Donald Trump presidency worries him. The first-term Florida senator said the Senate can be frustrating, but that it is also a place where policy advances can be made and one that can counteract the power of the White House. “But as we begin the next chapter in the history of our nation, there’s another role for the Senate that could end up being its most important in the years to come: The Constitutional power to act as a check and balance on the excesses of a president,” Rubio said in a statement. The 45-year-old lawmaker, a proven fund-raiser who is well known nationally, had been under intense pressure to run, especially given the cost of contesting an important election swing-state where campaign advertising is expensive. Republicans are more likely to retain his seat if he is a candidate in the Nov. 8 general election, as they face a tough fight to preserve their majority in the Senate. He could also rally Republican voters to head to the polls in a state that is critical in the presidential race. President Barack Obama, a Democrat, took Florida by just a one percentage-point margin in 2012 over Republican Mitt Romney. This year, Republicans must defend 24 of the 54 seats they now hold in the 100-member Senate, compared with just 10 the Democrats have to fight to retain. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said it would be a “terrific outcome” if Rubio decided to run.  Rubio had harsh words for Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, predicting her election would mean four more years of what he termed Obama’s “failed” policies. But he said the prospect of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump winning the White House was also “worrisome,” citing Trump’s statements about women and minorities and noting that many of the likely Republican nominee’s positions on important issues are unknown. “If he is elected, we will need Senators willing to encourage him in the right direction, and if necessary, stand up to him,” Rubio’s statement said. Still, he pledged to vote for Trump, a real estate mogul and political neophyte who has shaken the Republican establishment.  “It’s not the choice I wanted ... and it’s not the choice a lot of people are comfortable with, but it’s the choice we have,” he told CNN in an interview. His announcement did not mention the massacre last week at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, but he had said in recent days he was reconsidering his decision not to run because of his concern about serious events in the country, including the mass shooting. The decision reversed a campaign pledge Rubio made a year ago to retire from the Senate if his presidential bid failed. He ended his bid for the nomination in March after losing the primary in his home state to Trump following a harsh war of words. The Cook Political Report said Rubio’s announcement “breathed new life” into Republican chances of holding onto the seat but still rated the race as a toss-up, citing his poor Senate attendance record and the senator’s remarks during his presidential campaign that he was “frustrated” with the upper chamber. Republican U.S. Representative David Jolly, who had been seeking the Senate seat, opened the door for Rubio to run when he stepped aside last week.  After Wednesday’s announcement, Florida Lieutenant Governor Carlos Lopez Cantera, a friend of Rubio, and Republican U.S. Representative Ron DeSantis also scrapped plans to seek the seat. Other Republicans, however, have not announced plans to quit ahead of Florida’s Aug. 30 primary. U.S. Representative Patrick Murphy, a leading Democratic challenger, accused Rubio of first abandoning his constituents, and now “treating them like a consolation prize.” |

Article 2273 | Date: June 24, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: UK 'Leave' vote deflates hopes for U.S.-EU trade deal |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Britain’s looming exit from the European Union is another huge setback for negotiations on a massive U.S.-EU free trade deal that were already stalled by deeply entrenched differences and growing anti-trade sentiment on both sides of the Atlantic.  The historic divorce launched by Thursday’s vote will almost certainly further delay substantial progress in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) talks as the remaining 27 EU states sort out their own new relationship with Britain, trade experts said on Friday.  With French and German officials increasingly voicing skepticism about TTIP’s chances for success, the United Kingdom’s departure from the deal could sink hopes of a deal before President Barack Obama leaves office in January. “This is yet another reason why TTIP will likely be postponed,” said Heather Conley, European program director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank in Washington. “But to be honest, TTIP isn’t going anywhere, I believe, before 2018 at the earliest,” she said. U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman said in a statement on Friday that he was evaluating the UK decision’s impact on TTIP, but would continue to engage with both European and UK counterparts.     “The importance of trade and investment is indisputable in our relationships with both the European Union and the United Kingdom,” Froman said. “The economic and strategic rationale for T-TIP remains strong.” TTIP negotiators are still expected to meet in Brussels in mid-July as scheduled, but those talks were aimed at focusing on less controversial issues while leaving the thorniest disagreements for U.S. and EU political leaders to resolve. And it is unclear when Britain will launch formal separation proceedings, which will take at least two years. But analysts said both sides have been reluctant to put their best offers on the table with a new U.S. president due to take office in January and French and German leadership elections nearing in 2017. The Brexit also will preoccupy EU officials in coming months as they launch their own negotiations with London over the future terms of UK-EU trade, and sort out their post-Brexit priorities, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy, a Brussels-based think tank.     Britain’s departure could leave U.S. negotiators facing a European side that is more dug-in on some issues, said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a think tank in Washington. “As the UK is part of the coalition of liberal trading economies in the EU, the U.S. is losing one of the more like-minded countries from the group in Brussels sitting on the other side of the negotiating table,” said Bown, a former World Bank economist. However, Lee-Makiyama, who also sees little chance of a deal before 2018, said Britain’s departure could eliminate one source of disagreement because the UK has insisted on a financial services chapter in the trade deal. “The only real proponent of banking regulation in TTIP is the UK. Germany and France are probably willing to let it go,” he said. “It still leaves about 20 outstanding issues at nearly the same level of difficulty.” The TTIP negotiations, which started three years ago, have unable to settle major differences over agriculture, where the EU side has shown little willingness to alter food safety rules that prohibit American beef raised with hormones or genetically modified foods, or open its closely guarded geographical food naming rules, such as for Asiago and feta cheeses. European negotiators have complained that the United States has offered too little to open up its vast federal, state and local government procurement markets to European vendors with “Buy American” preferences in place. Europe also wants access to key U.S. sectors such as maritime transport and aviation, while American negotiators have been frustrated over lack of access to some 200 European sectors ranging from healthcare to education. The two sides also are far apart on how to resolve disputes. The U.S. side favors a traditional binding arbitration approach, while the Europeans want a court-like system that allows for appeals. More progress has been made on harmonizing regulations for things like car seat belt anchors, clothes labeling and pharmaceutical inspections. |

Article 2296 | Date: June 26, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Clinton campaign hits Trump for seeing Brexit as boon to his business |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign accused Donald Trump on Sunday of caring more about how Britain’s historic vote to leave the European Union would benefit his financial bottom line than how it would impact the U.S. economy. Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook acknowledged parallels between the populist anger and anti-establishment fervor that fueled the Brexit vote and Trump’s rise to the nomination, but said the Republican candidate’s reaction showed he was not fit to occupy the White House. “Hillary Clinton looks at this through the lens of how it’s going to affect middle-class families, Donald Trump through the lens of how it will help his bottom line,” Mook said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Without mentioning Trump by name, Clinton also warned that “bombastic comments in turbulent times can actually cause more turbulence” in a speech to a conference of city mayors in Indianapolis on Sunday afternoon. Her campaign released a national television advertisement earlier in the day, which featured the wealthy real estate developer’s comments on Friday that the fall of the British currency after the Brexit vote could mean more business for his golf course in Turnberry, Scotland, where he was speaking.  “Every president is tested by world events, but Donald Trump thinks about how his golf resort can profit from them,” said the  30-second video. Besides his currency comments, Trump had praised the Brexit result as an example of people “taking their country back.” He responded to the advertisement on Sunday by saying Clinton, whose staff had said she supported the United Kingdom remaining in the union, had poor judgment. “Clinton is trying to wash away her bad judgment call on BREXIT with big dollar ads,” ran a message on his Twitter account. “Disgraceful!” Paul Manafort, campaign manager for Trump, rejected what he called a “phony” charge by Clinton and said Trump was more in sync with the global economic frustration exemplified by the Brexit vote. In contrast, the Clinton ad showed her campaign’s “tone deafness” by focusing on things the American people did not care about, he said in an NBC interview. In her speech on Sunday, Clinton said the United States and the United Kingdom were different “economically, politically, demographically,” but still drew some parallels between the mood of American and British voters. “Just as we have seen, there are many frustrated people in Britain, we know there are frustrated people here at home, too,” she said. “I have seen it, I’ve heard it, I know it.” Global stock markets nosedived on Friday and economic experts warned of a potential global recession after the shocking British vote to pull out of the European Union. Markets prepared for the possibility of more pain on Monday. Republican Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the Brexit vote highlighted global anxieties about economic stagnation and immigration. “The genius of what’s happened with the candidacy of Donald Trump is he’s given voice to that, just as was given in the UK,” Corker, who has been mentioned as a possible vice presidential pick for Trump, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program. He said he thought Trump’s appearance at his golf course in Scotland after the Brexit vote “was one of his best events” and  his comments about the British currency and what it would mean for his businesses were just “an anecdotal statement” about its effects. “He was giving an example, which is obvious, that when the currency fluctuates, as it does, more Americans are going to be able to travel to the UK more cheaply,” he said. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said the Brexit vote showed people were tired of being dictated to by “unelected bureaucrats in Brussels,” and said there were parallels in the United States. Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, who built his White House campaign against Clinton around populist proposals to eradicate income inequality, remove big money from politics and rein in Wall Street, said the Brexit vote encapsulated many of those concerns. “What ordinary people are saying is ‘hey, give us an economy that works for all of us, not just the people on top,’” Sanders said on CNN. |

Article 2377 | Date: July 3, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senator McCain, visiting Pakistan, seeks better ties in Islamist fight |
 | Content: ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - U.S. Senator John McCain said on Sunday he would like relations between United States and Pakistan to improve as they have a common enemy in the Islamic State and other radical Islamist groups. Relations between Pakistan and United States have been frayed over the past decade, with U.S. officials frustrated by what they term Islamabad’s unwillingness to act against Islamist groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network. Pakistan rejects harboring militants but says there are limits to how much it can do as it is already fighting multiple Islamist groups and is wary of “blowback” in the form of more terror attacks on its soil.  McCain, visiting Pakistan as part of a U.S. delegation, said he had an “excellent meeting” with Pakistani foreign ministry officials. “We come back with a message that we have a common enemy in ISIS, radical Islam and terrorism, and we look forward to closer relations and resolving the differences we have,” McCain told Pakistan’s national PTV channel. Relations between United States and Pakistan were tested again in May by a U.S. drone strike that killed Afghan Taliban chief Mullah Akhtar Mansour on Pakistani soil.  As part of the visit, McCain traveled to Miranshah, the capital of the restive North Waziristan region bordering Afghanistan. The region was effectively run Islamists by groups such as the Pakistani Taliban and the Haqqani network until the Pakistani military launched operations against them in 2014. “I was very impressed with the progress (on the ground),” said McCain, who is the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I see us working together in confronting a common challenge – radical Islamic terrorism – and these kinds of meetings are very helpful to both those countries,” McCain added. The Islamic State has struggled to gain a major foothold in Pakistan, analysts say, but officials worry the group may pose a threat in the future.  Pakistan said the country’s top foreign policy official Sartaj Aziz had briefed the U.S. delegation - which includes Senators Lindsey Graham, Benjamin Sasse and Joe Donnelly - about faltering peace talks to end the civil war in Afghanistan. So far China, United States and Pakistan have struggled to persuade the Afghan Taliban to meaningfully embrace the talks. “No country had as much vital stakes in the success of these joint efforts, as Pakistan, (Aziz) remarked,” Pakistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement. |

Article 2655 | Date: July 28, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: For inspiration, new Democratic stars look to Elizabeth Warren |
 | Content: PHILADELPHIA (Reuters) - Twelve years ago, Barack Obama’s electrifying speech at the Democratic National Convention brought tears to Andrew Gillum’s eyes. Now mayor of Tallahassee, Florida, and viewed as a rising star in that state, Gillum did not hesitate when asked to name his political role model.  “Elizabeth Warren,” he replied, referring to the firebrand U.S. senator from Massachusetts.  That the 37-year-old African-American mayor of a Southern U.S. city identifies Warren as his political lodestar speaks volumes about the Democratic Party’s progressive shift, even as Hillary Clinton officially became its presidential nominee after a quarter-century in the public eye. With the party in transition, Clinton’s 1990s-era brand of Democratic centrism is slowly being eclipsed by a wave of progressivism personified by Warren and by U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, a rival of Clinton’s until he endorsed her this month. Although Sanders’ insurgent presidential bid fell short, leaving his supporters bitterly disappointed, a new crop of Democratic candidates seems determined to carry on his work, with Warren, 67, as their putative leader.  Like Obama in 2004, Gillum and many others at the Philadelphia convention sought to boost their profiles, raise cash and network with fellow Democrats, buoyed by the adoption of the most progressive platform in party history, with planks for debt-free college, expanded Social Security benefits and a tax on carbon emissions. Clinton, too, has moved to the left, embracing many of these causes, separating herself from a more moderate brand of Democratic politics personified by her husband, former President Bill Clinton, who was pro-free trade, friendlier to Wall Street and emphasized budget discipline.  She appealed to Sanders supporters during her speech accepting the party’s presidential nomination on Thursday, pledging to work with him on progressive issues. “Let’s go out there and make it happen together,” Clinton said.  Sarah Lloyd, 44, a congressional candidate in Wisconsin who supported Sanders, said, “There is an energy that’s coming from the folks that were brought to the process by the Sanders campaign.... That can only be a positive thing for the party.” More than Sanders, Warren has taken the lead in shaping the Democrats’ next generation. Formerly a professor of law, Warren conceived and set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau formed in 2011 under President Obama. She launched a political action committee to back Democratic candidates and inspired other advocacy groups, such as the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, to solicit donations to a bloc it terms the party’s “Warren wing.” A speaker at the convention, Florida’s Gillum was frustrated by Sanders because he seemed disinterested in helping other Democratic candidates, in contrast with Warren.  “Senator Sanders was content to be a movement by himself,” Gillum said. “It’s a revolution when you bring people along with you.”  Warren’s committee has donated to the campaigns of U.S. Senate hopefuls such as Kamala Harris, 51, of California, Jason Kander, 35, of Missouri, and Catherine Cortez Masto, 52, of Nevada. They and Wisconsin’s Lloyd oppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the global trade deal that has split the progressive and moderate elements of the party. The PCCC’s slate of “Warren wing” candidates supports a $15-an-hour minimum wage, campaign-finance reform and tighter rules for Wall Street.  One of those on the slate is Zephyr Teachout, a candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in New York, who has campaigned in a T-shirt that reads, “I’m from the Elizabeth Warren wing of the party” and who has been endorsed by Sanders.  “There is a rising and very important populism, talking about money in politics, talking about trade, talking about economic issues,” Teachout, 44, told Reuters. “Within the party, and across the board, there has been a serious rethinking of trade, rethinking of big banks, rethinking of monopolies that have too much power.” Tulsi Gabbard, a U.S. representative from Hawaii, is often mentioned by Sanders supporters as one who could assume his mantle. A cable-news regular, Gabbard, 35, was one of a few Sanders supporters offered a convention speaking slot. Onstage she formally nominated Sanders for president, saying he had become a “voice for millions, connecting seamlessly with laborers in the Rust Belt and environmentalists in the West.” Other rising Democratic progressives frequently cited by strategists include Julian Castro, 41, the U.S. housing secretary, and his twin brother, Representative Joaquin Castro of Texas, former Ohio state senator Nina Turner, 48, U.S. Senate candidate Pramila Jayapal, 50, of Washington, and former South Carolina lawmaker Bakari Sellers, 31. Harris might be the one to shine the brightest. As California’s attorney general, Harris has been mentioned as a potential U.S. presidential candidate or U.S. Supreme Court justice should she win her Senate race in November. She enjoys the support of Warren, Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and former New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent, suggesting she can appeal to both the party’s liberal and moderate flanks.  She joined forces with Bloomberg in his crusade for tighter gun laws, bonded with Warren over helping homeowners struggling through the foreclosure crisis of the late 2000s and joined Obama’s efforts to overhaul a criminal justice system that tends to treat black citizens more harshly than white ones. In one campaign ad, Warren is viewed saying, “Kamala Harris was fearless.” Harris, in turn, has backed Clinton. In an interview, she rejected the idea that the party is leaving Clinton behind even as it nominates her for president.  “I strongly believe that these two generations have much more in common than what separates them in terms of fundamental values,” Harris said. |

Article 2710 | Date: August 2, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: The Big Squeeze: This election year, it’s all about the money |
 | Content: MIDDLETOWN, CONN. - Two years ago, Judy Konopka and Craig Diangelo lost their jobs in the IT department of what was then known as Northeast Utilities, a regional electricity provider, when the company decided to replace about 220 employees with guest workers from India. In order to receive a more lucrative separation package, they had to train their foreign replacements both here and overseas.  Both had trouble finding new work. Konopka, 56, is still looking. Diangelo, 64, is working as a contractor for a company that provides no benefits, making substantially less than he did before. He views himself as a victim of globalization, a casualty of offshoring—and he credits Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee who has cast himself as the champion of displaced and disaffected U.S. workers, for bringing the issue to light.  “I’ll vote for him,” says Diangelo, over dinner at a Thai restaurant on this town’s Main Street. Two others at the table murmur in assent.  He continues, his voice rising: “I wasn’t planning on retiring early. I wasn’t planning on making $35,000 less. I’ve had to cut back a lot. I basically live paycheck to paycheck.”  “I could never vote for Hillary Clinton,” Diangelo says, citing Clinton’s support of the North American Free Trade Agreement, passed while her husband, Bill, was president, as well as her advocacy of the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade pact that’s still being negotiated by the Obama administration. (Challenged by Bernie Sanders, Clinton has since retracted her support of TPP.) Even Konopka, who favors Clinton (she calls Trump “the biggest idiot”), has to admit Clinton’s support of trade deals such as NAFTA gives her pause. When Northeast Utilities fired her after 21 years, “I felt betrayed.” Konopka took advantage of a federal trade assistance program to improve her skills in web design, then discovered she couldn’t compete with designers outside the country who were willing to work for much less. Now, to get by, she sells vintage books on the web. “It’s starting to get really scary,” she says.  This presidential election is, purportedly, the Year of the Angry Voter, with images of scuffles at Trump rallies occupying cable-news screens. But as befitting someone who lives in a place called Middletown, Konopka is more typical of voters: consumed by a stomach-churning uncertainty, a vague sense of something lost, and an inescapable belief that an array of powerful forces—corporations, politicians, government—aren’t looking out for them.  Economists and pundits have been struggling to explain why, with unemployment below 5 percent and a bounty of positive economic indicators, voters seem so dismayed, so distrustful. It might be something as simple as bargaining power.  In his best-known book, The Art of the Deal, Trump advises every negotiator to “use your leverage.” But increasingly, U.S. workers, white-and blue-collar alike, feel they have none. They’ve seen their power erode as they are tossed into a global labor pool, as companies consolidate and shed jobs to please Wall Street, as unions wither, state budgets tighten, technology advances and iconic brands such as Nabisco pack up and move to Mexico.  The squeeze is on.  “There’s a feeling among workers that not only are they replaceable, but that they will be replaced,” says Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in nearby Worcester, Massachusetts. “That there is no security anymore, that someone is making a profit by letting them go.”  “Trump,” he adds, “has tapped into that very well.”  According to Reuters/Ipsos polling, 71 percent of Trump supporters either have had to take a lower-paying job in the last few years, have a family member who has had to do so, or have a family member whose home has been threatened by foreclosure. In a sign of how widespread the phenomenon has become, 63 percent of Clinton supporters reported the same dismal tally.  “People feel more insecure about trade than terrorism,” Chaison tells me. “Everyone knows someone who has lost their job.”  What bothers Diangelo most is that he was let go by a company that still valued his skill—just not him. “The sad part is that my job is still there,” he says. “It didn’t go away. I went away.”  None of this should feel particularly new. The United States has been bleeding middle-class workers—especially in the industrial and manufacturing sectors—as long as Bruce Springsteen has been around to sing about it. Candidates adorned with hard hats vowing to bring back factory jobs have become a set-piece of modern politics.  The United States has lost more than 5 million manufacturing jobs in the past 15 years as the trade deficit has mushroomed, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank in Washington. Wage growth in almost all sectors has flatlined over that time, including for the bottom 70 percent of fouryear college graduates—and growth overall has been anemic, at under 2 percent. And while the 9 million jobs vaporized in the flash of the Great Recession have been recovered, the majority of them are of lesser quality than the ones they replaced.  Perhaps most fundamentally, the relationship between employee and employer has shifted. Workers’ share of the pie has decreased substantially since the 1970s, when the country’s corporate and industrial base began to erode. Last year, workers’ share dropped to 75.5 percent of corporate income, even as technology has made workforces more productive and efficient. U.S. corporate profits, meantime, returned to pre-recession levels in 2012. Workers “sense that the recovery is only partial. It helps employers more than it helps workers,” Chaison says.  If workers’ sense of slippage seems familiar, the way their discontent is rippling through our politics feels newly transformative. Voters threw out the Republicans running Congress in 2006, then two years later elected the first African-American president, an outsider who vowed reform. Souring on him, they replaced Democrats then controlling Congress with another set of Republicans in 2010 and 2014, making governance as unstable as the business sector. In a period of war, terrorism and economic chaos, all that churn might best be viewed as a deeply frustrated electorate trying to use what little leverage they have to change a system they consider to be otherwise unaccountable.  Trump has been the main beneficiary of that frustration. He makes those in the crowd feel like they matter, that they finally have a bully of their own who can push back at what they view as an alliance of unprincipled corporate culture and an enabling government. “You’re looking at a situation where the jobs are being ripped out of our states, out of our country, like candy from a baby,” Trump said at a rally this spring.  It has been Trump, along with Democrat Sanders, who has pushed the issue of job losses to countries such as China, Mexico and India to the forefront. Trump has threatened to slap a tax on imports and tear up trade deals. In Indiana earlier this year, he ripped air conditioner manufacturer Carrier for announcing it would lay off 2,100 workers and move its operations to Mexico. He gave Nabisco the same treatment, pledging he would no longer eat Oreos. He has slammed companies such as Apple and Boeing for their overseas operations, as well.  Few presidential candidates have such temerity to challenge well-known American brands, but clearly it is resonating. “They might not like everything he says, but they believe he says what he thinks,” Lewis Gossett, president of the South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance, told me last summer. “I think we’re repeating a time in history when the very rich are removed from the very poor.”  Michael Smith is one of the Americans Trump rallies for. Smith was among 600 Nabisco employees laid off at the bakery on Chicago’s South Side earlier this year, after the company announced it was transferring some work to Mexico. He got the news at 3 a.m. “It was,” Smith tells me, “a dark night when all your livelihood passes in front of you, and you feel like you’ve been given the royal shaft.”  Smith operated the machines that wrapped Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers. With overtime, he could clear $85,000 a year. He’s 59 and wasn’t thinking he would have to re-enter the job market.  The day before, Smith had shown up at a shareholders meeting in Chicago to confront Irene Rosenfeld, the chief executive of Mondelez International, the holding company that oversees the Nabisco brand, about the move to Mexico. While sympathetic, Rosenfeld said it was her duty to maximize the corporation’s value to its shareholders worldwide by cutting costs.  “There are two types of CEO mindsets,” Smith responded, “those who care about shareholders and those who care about the shareholders and the people.”  In our conversation, Smith didn’t begrudge the company’s legal right to relocate the jobs, but he questions a CEO who earned more than $40 million in compensation over the last two years exhorting the virtues of cost-cutting to a room full of laid-off blue-collar workers. “That’s not good citizenship,” he says. “Wealth comes from the workers. That profitability comes from us.”  Clinton met with a small group of the Nabisco workers in March, the day before the Illinois primary. But the visit didn’t leave Smith with much hope that as president she could do much either for the workers’ situation or to reverse the demands of a globalized economy. In part, that’s due to Clinton’s support of NAFTA, which Smith terms an “infection,” but also because of the lobbying might of Mondelez, a $30 billion company, and other big corporations.  Smith is the unusual American voter who says he hasn’t decided between Clinton and Trump. He’ll focus on the election later. First, he has to keep his household afloat and his daughter in school at Columbia College in Chicago. He has six months’ salary to cushion him.  He’s trying to stay optimistic about finding work, saying his wife and daughter are counting on him. But, he concedes, “I think I have been a little bit in denial. Even people of faith have bouts of depression.”  Angela Valero gives a one-word reply when I ask her about a potential Clinton-Trump matchup: “Ugh.” I might as well be asking about who’s going to win the next regatta on Mars, so far is the election from her daily concerns.  Valero’s dream job was to be a corrections officer. She was finally hired on by the state of Connecticut last fall. The single mother of an 8-year-old girl thought that, at last, she had a reliable, stable position with benefits.  But after completing an academy training course and being posted as a guard at the state maximum-security facility in nearby Uncasville, she found out this spring that she was being laid off, a consequence of a decision made by Connecticut’s Democratic governor, Dannel Malloy, and the state legislature to not raise taxes on the wealthy to cover a budget shortfall. Lawmakers worried that the state’s richest residents would relocate to Florida, which has no state income tax, or other states with lower taxes.  During the downturn, Connecticut lost a bevy of high-paying jobs in the financial services sector in the corporate hub of Stamford and elsewhere. The jobs created during the recovery were less lucrative, resulting in lower tax revenue. In addition, the state was spooked when General Electric, responding to an effort by the legislature to raise business taxes, announced it was relocating its headquarters from Fairfield to Boston. Aetna, the health insurer based in Hartford, also threatened to leave the state.  That shelved any notion of new taxes. The state looked to trim its public workforce instead. “Easy targets,” says Lori Pelletier, president of the state AFL-CIO.  Rape counselors, child-service workers, prison guards began receiving pink slips. Ultimately, 2,500 or more state workers could be let go. Pelletier contrasted that with the 200 jobs GE is moving to Boston—something that drew substantial media attention.  The state of Massachusetts and the city of Boston helped recruit GE with a generous benefit package, including $25 million in property tax relief for a corporation that critics have long held pays little in U.S. taxes. “Angela last year paid more taxes than GE,” Pelletier says. “And she’s the one losing her job.”  Valero tells me she has little faith that anyone in Washington can help her. She doesn’t sleep more than four hours a night, kept up by worrying about paying the electric bill and keeping her house. She has no idea whether she’ll ever be recalled to work.  Throughout the interview, she stays stoic, determined, like the corrections office she was trained to be. Only at the end of our conversation does she slip a bit. “I held back the tears,” she says with relief.  Ron Ozer greets me at the door with the sheepishness of someone who isn’t used to being at home during the workday. Ozer, 53, was laid off from DuPont Co. in January after a 23-year career. A Ph.D in chemical engineering, he has more than 20 patents to his name. He worked on long-term projects at the DuPont Experimental Station in Wilmington, Delaware, one of the more storied research facilities in the country, where products such as nylon, Lycra and Kevlar were created.  “Some of the great developments in American industry came out of that site,” Ozer says. “It was a time when America was growing so dramatically.”  But a lack of growth and pressure from investors forced DuPont to announce a merger with another giant, Dow Chemical. In advance of the merger, it has begun to shed jobs. In Delaware alone, DuPont plans to dump 1,700 workers—many in the area of long-term research, which can be expensive without yielding immediate rewards to shareholders. Ozer’s group was eviscerated.  The $130 billion merger of DuPont and Dow blends two U.S. companies that date back to the 19th century. Barry Lynn, an economist at the New America think tank, says that industry consolidation chills the labor market, sapping demand for skilled workers such as Ozer. Dominant companies can use their market power to charge customers more or make suppliers pay less—all without having to grow and create jobs to survive. Indeed, the push from Wall Street is to cull and cut, not grow. And when companies do expand today it’s largely through acquisition, not investment.  “That’s a huge amount of the energy that’s behind Trump,” Lynn says, “the sense of power being consolidated and being out of control and harming me and my family and my community.”  Ozer will try to take advantage of his contacts at DuPont to become a consultant, but admits that’s a gamble. Asked if he thinks he can replicate the six-figure salary he enjoyed at DuPont, he laughs. “I’m not confident of that.”  His chief concern is his two daughters, both of whom are out of college. In order to give his youngest a leg up in the market, he sent her to private Haverford College in Pennsylvania (tuition: $46,000)—going deep into debt to do so. “I have a lot of possibilities, but I need things to start turning into dollars soon,” he says.  For Sara Blackwell, representing U.S. workers displaced by the federal H1-B visa program began as a gig. Now, it’s a full-blown cause.  The Tampa lawyer has been giving away clients who would distract her from her work. She jokes she’s stopped sleeping and exercising. Recently, she launched a website called ProtectUSworkers.com. “I speak to an average of 10 people a day who are victims of this,” she tells me. “The more I learn about this, the more I have to fight.”  She began by representing IT workers at Walt Disney World in Florida who were replaced by guest workers from India brought in on temporary visas by outsourcing firms that contracted with Disney. She has filed a long-shot conspiracy lawsuit in federal court.  Blackwell contends that the practice of outsourcing low-end, back-office IT jobs to cut costs has become endemic. Globalization, she says, is systematically lowering the standard of living of American workers. “It’s a race to the bottom,” she says.  The Disney case garnered the attention of some in the U.S. Senate, including Jeff Sessions, a Republican from Alabama who now is at the forefront of a fight against the American tech industry, which wants to expand the guest-worker program citing a lack of domestic qualified engineers and programmers.  But those tech companies are at the back of the line. According to Ron Hira, a professor at Howard University who tracks applications, outsourcing firms have been crowding out tech companies in the race to acquire the highly coveted H1-B visas, which are capped at 85,000 a year.  Sessions, who is also a fierce opponent of immigration reform, was one of the first U.S. politicians to embrace Trump—and Blackwell has spoken out against the program at several Trump rallies.  She also has consulted with the outsourced employees who worked at Northeast Utilities in Connecticut, including Craig Diangelo.  Part of Diangelo’s frustration—and part of what is driving him toward Trump—is that Washington has done so little to curb what he views as abuses of the H1-B program. There is a greater push now on Capitol Hill to broaden the program rather than rein it in. “There’s nobody to help us,” he tells me. “There’s nobody to say you can’t do this.”  Richard Blumenthal, a U.S. senator from Connecticut, has been part of efforts to expand the program, but also to reform it. “It’s a desperately serious problem,” he says.  He told me that even though there is some bipartisan consensus on reform, efforts still aren’t moving forward, consumed by the same paralysis that’s stalling everything else.  “There are powerful forces against us,” Blumenthal says, “including the companies that exploit these programs.”  To Diangelo, that’s the dilemma of the modern, middle-class voter. He worked hard for years, lost his job when his only transgression was being too old and making too much money, was humiliated when he had to train his replacement, and then watched how state and federal politicians have been able to do nothing to help him.  Why shouldn’t he support Donald Trump? What’s worth preserving? He’s a tech worker, sipping Pinot Grigio over pad thai. He’s no militant or conspiracist. Yet...  “There is going to be an uprising,” he says. “People are starting to say: `I’ve had enough of this. I’ve really had enough.’”   This report first appeared in “The American Voter,” Reuters’ special election issue, available on iTunes or Google Play. |

Article 2748 | Date: August 8, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump seeks a campaign reset with Detroit economic speech |
 | Content: DETROIT/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican Donald Trump sought to regain momentum for his White House campaign on Monday by proposing sweeping tax breaks, cuts to federal regulations and a revival of the stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline project. The New York businessman used a speech on the economy in Detroit to try to turn the page after a week of missteps in which he came under heavy criticism, including from some in his own party, and rival Democrat Hillary Clinton surged ahead in opinion polls three months ahead of the Nov. 8 election. “I want to jump-start America,” Trump said, “and it won’t even be that hard.” Trump stuck to prepared remarks rather than the freewheeling style that often produces controversial comments at rallies. He kept his cool as some 14 protesters jumped to their feet and shouted at coordinated intervals as he spoke at the Detroit Economic Club.  Trump’s remarks, which were repeatedly cheered by the crowd, appeared targeted at both an affluent business community and working people, in particular those who have suffered from a decline in U.S. manufacturing in cities such as Detroit. He dismissed Clinton as representing “the tired voices of the past.”  “We now begin a great national conversation about economic renewal for America,” Trump said. “It’s a conversation about how to make America great again for everyone ... especially for those who have the very least.” Much of the speech reflected Republican talking points and critics said his proposals lacked detail. But Republican operatives and others who saw the speech praised Trump for turning his focus to policy and contrasting his ideas with Clinton’s. The question for Trump now is whether he will be able to keep his campaign on message as Republicans want him to do. Trump pitched a tax plan that mirrored traditional Republican thinking that lowering taxes and slashing regulation generates economic growth and jobs. He proposed lowering individual and corporate rates and a discounted 10 percent levy for businesses that bring back profits held overseas. Trump’s plan to create new tax deductions for childcare costs raised questions from economists about whether lower-income families would benefit. Many Republicans remain frustrated with his trade vision, which bucks party orthodoxy by calling for a rewrite of major agreements. “My response is good, bad and ugly,” said Lanhee Chen, who was policy director for the 2012 presidential campaign of Republican Mitt Romney. “I think the trade position remains pretty ugly,” he said. “But I understand why they did it. I think it’s a strong effort, at least, to meld elements of conservative economic policy with Trump’s more populist thinking.” Trump’s effort to shift focus came after what was widely seen as the worst week of his campaign, in which he sparred with party leaders and got entangled in a dispute with the parents of a Muslim U.S. soldier who was killed in the Iraq war. Republican Senator Susan Collins added her name on Monday to a growing list of Republican lawmakers who say they will not vote for Trump. Some frustrated Republicans plan to back a conservative alternative, former CIA officer Evan McMullin. On Monday, Trump waited for the frequent disruptions by protesters to end, smiling and refraining from his practice at campaign rallies of asking security to “get them out of here.” A group called the Michigan People’s Campaign took credit for the protests, which they said were aimed at Trump’s recent comments about sexual harassment. Clinton will outline her economic vision in Michigan on Thursday. In a statement issued before Trump’s speech, her campaign said his plan would give tax breaks to the wealthy and big companies and would hurt working families.  At a rally on Monday in St. Petersburg, Florida, she derided a list of economic advisers Trump released last week as “six guys named Steve.” “Now, they tried to make his old, tired ideas sound new,” Clinton said. “He wants to basically just repackage trickle-down economics.” Trump’s rough week took its toll in opinion polls. A Washington Post-ABC News poll released on Sunday gave Clinton an eight-point lead, 50 percent to 42 percent.  Trump, a real estate developer who has never held elected public office, touts his practical experience and potential to create jobs, blaming President Barack Obama for what he calls a weak recovery from the economic recession. On Monday, he said Clinton would rely on policies that have not worked. “She is the candidate of the past,” Trump said. “Ours is the campaign of the future.” Reaction from the crowd in Detroit was mixed.  “I think he laid out a good bullet point on how he’s going to solve the economic problems with his trade policies,” said insurance executive Sal Giammursta. Others wanted more details. “People were looking for more substance,” said lawyer Al Rogalski. Trump called for a temporary moratorium on new regulations and repeated his pledges to rewrite the landmark North American trade deal that President Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton’s husband, signed in 1994, and to withdraw from the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership deal backed by Obama. But much of the reaction was to Trump’s tax plan. He again proposed lowering the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from the current 35 percent. And he proposed lowering income-based individual tax brackets to 12 percent, 25 percent and 33 percent. In 2015, Trump proposed a lower top rate of 25 percent. After criticism from budget experts who said such low rates would balloon deficits, he tweaked his proposal to be more in line with policies supported by Republicans in Congress. “It’s encouraging that Donald Trump appears to be modifying his tax plan,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the anti-debt Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. The research group Tax Policy Center estimated in December that Trump’s original plan would reduce federal tax revenues by $9.5 trillion in the first decade.  Steve Moore, an adviser to Trump, said the campaign believes it has made changes to bring the plan’s cost down to $2 trillion to $3 trillion. A campaign aide said Trump would give more detail in a later speech. |

Article 2749 | Date: August 8, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Republican national security experts: Trump would be 'dangerous' president |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Fifty prominent Republican national security officials, including a former CIA director, on Monday called party nominee Donald Trump unqualified to lead the country and said he would be “the most reckless president in American history.” The statement was the latest repudiation of Trump’s candidacy by veteran Republican national security specialists, and was remarkable for the harshness of its language. “Mr. Trump lacks the character, values, and experience to be president. He weakens U.S. moral authority as the leader of the free world. He appears to lack basic knowledge about and belief in the U.S. Constitution, U.S. laws and U.S. institutions, including religious tolerance, freedom of the press, and an independent judiciary,” the statement said. “None of us will vote for Donald Trump,” said the statement, which noted that some signatories also have doubts about Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. “From a foreign policy perspective, Donald Trump is not qualified to be president and commander in chief,” said the statement, which was first reported in the New York Times. “Indeed, we are convinced that he would be a dangerous president and would put at risk our country’s national security and well-being.” The signatories, some of whom worked for more than one Republican president, included former Central Intelligence Agency Director Michael Hayden, who also headed the National Security Agency; former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff; former Director of National Intelligence John Negroponte; and two former U.S. trade representatives, Carla Hills and Robert Zoelick. Other signatories included former senior State Department, Pentagon and National Security Council officials who helped plan and oversee the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq. Trump has harshly criticized the Iraq operation, although when radio host Howard Stern asked him in 2002 if he favored invading Iraq, Trump said he guessed he did. The statement was organized by Philip Zelikow, who served as a top adviser to former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Trump responded with a statement deriding the signatories as members of “the failed Washington elite” who “deserve the blame for making the world such a dangerous place.” “These insiders – along with Hillary Clinton – are the owners of the disastrous decisions to invade Iraq, allow Americans to die in Benghazi, and they are the ones who allowed the rise of ISIS,” he continued, using an acronym for the Islamic State militant group. The statement did not cite specific comments by Trump, but it clearly was a response to a series of remarks he has made questioning the need for NATO, expressing admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, calling for a temporary ban on immigration by Muslims, and inviting Russia to hack Clinton’s private email server - which he later said was a joke. Many of the signatories had declined to sign an open letter disputing Trump’s national security qualifications that was published in March. The statement said many Americans are frustrated with the federal government’s failure to solve domestic and international problems. “But Donald Trump is not the answer to America’s daunting challenges and to this crucial election,” the statement said. “We are convinced that in the Oval Office, he would be the most reckless President in American history. Some Democratic foreign policy experts called the statement a reminder of the divisions the New York real estate developer’s nomination has sown within the Republican Party. “This letter is signed by those who remain in the internationalist wing of the party – many were former advisors to candidates who lost the primary fight to Trump,” said Brian Katulis, a fellow at the Center for American Progress and a Clinton campaign adviser. “Calling Trump unqualified to be commander in chief is tough, but also asserting that he’s lacking in character and understanding of our basic values is really pretty amazing,” said Tommy Vietor, a former National Security Council spokesman in Democratic President Barack Obama’s administration. “That said, I think it’s unlikely to influence many voters, but it could give cover to Republican members of Congress and donors who want to cut the cord and move on from Trump.” (For the complete statement go to: here) |

Article 2894 | Date: August 26, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: As racial politics loom over election, Obama's legacy is seen as mixed |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When Barack Obama became the first African-American to win the White House in 2008, his victory was a turning point in U.S. race relations that set high expectations for progress to come. Nearly eight years later, with Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton attacking each other over racial politics, the legacy of Obama’s presidency looks decidedly mixed, black leaders said. To some, the tone of the Republican presidential nominee’s campaign, as well as a recent series of racially charged shootings involving police, show that the United States has come no closer to overcoming its history of racial strife. Having a black president, two attorneys general and a chief of homeland security did not result in basic fairness for victims of racially charged violence, said Cornel West, an academic and former Obama supporter who has become a high-profile critic of the Democratic president.  “How many policemen who have murdered unarmed innocent black civilians have gone to jail with that kind of black power at the top? Zero,” West said. Obama could have acted more directly while in office to help blacks, West added, citing persistently high childhood poverty among African-Americans. “The (economic) recovery has not filtered over into black and working poor communities,” he said. Others said Obama showed leadership on race while making real achievements on healthcare and the economy that helped Americans of all ethnicities. Al Sharpton, a civil rights leader with close ties to the White House, described Obama as a “transformative” president held back by the need to serve varying constituencies and compromise with lawmakers who had different priorities. “He tried to be as balanced and respectful as he could, to the chagrin of many in the black community, who felt that he was leaning over backwards,” Sharpton said. Unemployment among African-Americans fell by half under Obama, Sharpton noted, while Obama’s remarks on race elevated the issue. In 2012 at the White House, Obama referred to Trayvon Martin, a black youth gunned down by a white Hispanic man, as a boy who would have resembled the son he did not have. “We’ve never had a president do that,” Sharpton said. Andrew Young, a former Atlanta mayor, congressman, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and adviser to slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., said Obama, as a black leader, had to seek compromise more than previous white presidents. “It was easier for (Jimmy) Carter or Lyndon Johnson, even Bill Clinton as southern whites to do things specifically for black people,” Young said. Backlash from white working class voters had contributed to Trump’s rise, Young said. “We really haven’t had a complete psychological adjustment to a multi-racial society,” he said. “That’s what’s rallying people behind Trump. They’re frustrated by the complexities of this day and age. And (Trump), like others, gives a simple answer and blames it on somebody else.” Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, blasted Trump on Thursday as a divisive candidate who was stoking racist groups. Trump criticized Clinton, saying she had let black Americans down and was falsely labeling Republicans as bigoted. Clinton supporters were more likely to want to address race relations than Trump supporters, a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll of more than 2,800 people found in late March. Obama has said race relations are not as bad as some suggest. Friends say he never expected his presidency to wipe away centuries of racism and slavery’s legacy. “To expect to erase all of that legacy of injustice or racism and discrimination in eight years is unrealistic,” said Valerie Jarrett, a White House adviser and close Obama friend. “Were there people who probably had a false sense of progress based just on an election? Sure,” she said. The administration wants to advance criminal justice reform legislation before Obama leaves office, aiming for a win on an issue watched closely in the black community. But prospects of passage in Congress during an election year are uncertain.  Obama, who has made clear his disdain for Trump and his frustration with Congress, has said he hoped his own voice on race would help improve things for future generations. “We plant seeds, and somebody else maybe sits under the shade of the tree that we planted,” Obama said at a news conference in July. |

Article 3138 | Date: September 16, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Obama enlists Republican Kasich to push for TPP trade deal |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Ohio’s Republican governor, John Kasich, took over the White House briefing lectern on Friday to praise the 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, an unusual move that shows how hard President Barack Obama will push for the trade deal’s approval. Obama, a Democrat who is leaving office in four months, met with the governor, who fell short in his bid to be the Republican presidential candidate, in the White House Oval Office to discuss strategies for overcoming domestic political angst over the TPP. The unlikely partnership comes as the White House makes a final full-court push to persuade Republican congressional leaders to approve the deal in a “lame duck” session after the Nov. 8 election. Both Republican and Democratic candidates have pilloried the TPP. “We cannot get to the point in America that because a Democrat wants something, you can’t agree with them,” Kasich said in an impassioned plea to Republican lawmakers to back the deal, which is a key part of Obama’s foreign policy legacy. Kasich said the deal is vital for the U.S. economy and also to counter China and Russia, and said business leaders need to apply pressure on lawmakers to approve it. “Right now, China is pushing hard to create their own trade agreement,” Obama told reporters in the Oval Office ahead of the meeting, saying U.S. businesses were at risk of being “cut out” of Asia, the world’s fastest-growing market. “I promise you that China’s not going to be setting up a bunch of rules that are going to be to the advantage of American companies and American businesses,” Obama said. Other business and political leaders also attended the meeting, including former Republican Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, International Business Machines Corp Chief Executive Officer Virginia Rometty and former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Republicans traditionally have backed free trade deals, but the party’s presidential candidate, Donald Trump, has blamed the agreements for U.S. job losses and threatened to tear them up should he win. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said the TPP would not get a Senate vote this year, and House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan has said he does not see enough votes for it to pass. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has also opposed the deal, which is unpopular with labor unions and environmental groups. Obama has said he hopes opposition cools after the election. The White House has pointed to opinion polls showing most Americans support trade as a sign that the TPP could still squeak through Congress. “If you’re frustrated about rules of trade that disadvantage America, if you’re frustrated about jobs being shipped overseas ... then you want to get this thing passed,” Obama told reporters. On his final trip to Asia as president earlier this month, Obama spent time reassuring nervous partners that the United States would finalize the TPP. But on Friday, Vietnam’s parliament indicated it would not ratify the deal quickly. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Vietnam’s decision was not a setback. “I think the real stumbling block, the real impediment, the obstacle here is (the U.S.) Congress,” Earnest said, noting there was “every indication” that Vietnam would proceed as long as Congress approved the TPP. |

Article 3140 | Date: September 16, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Obama, Republican Kasich meet to strategize on TPP trade deal |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama on Friday met with Ohio’s Republican Governor John Kasich and other high-profile business and political leaders to strategize about how to secure U.S. approval of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal. “If you’re frustrated about rules of trade that disadvantage America, if you’re frustrated about jobs being shipped overseas ... then you want to get this thing passed, you want to get this thing done,” Obama told reporters in the Oval Office. |

Article 3216 | Date: September 23, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In Trump/Clinton face-off on Monday, winning over women will be key |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton face off in their first presidential debate together on Monday, they will have their best chance yet to win over the roughly 27 million Americans who have yet to decide who to vote for. In some ways, this group looks like a typical Trump supporter: they are mainly white, without college degrees, older, and frustrated by the status quo. But while Trump’s supporters are mostly men, America’s uncommitted voters are mostly women, according to Reuters/Ipsos polling. With polls showing a close fight between Trump and Hillary, this is a group that could decide the election.  Katie Packer, a Republican strategist who served as a top aide to Mitt Romney in 2012 said polls show that many undecided women have been put off by Trump’s inflammatory rhetoric, while others see Clinton, the first female presidential candidate from a major U.S. party, as dishonest. “These are the same women who don’t trust Hillary and think she’s phony,” she said. “But Trump is scary to them.”     Roughly 20 percent of America’s likely voters are still on the fence, compared to just 12 percent at the same time in the 2012 election, underscoring the unpopularity of both Trump and Clinton.  Some 77 percent of them think the country is on the “wrong track,” which puts them more in line with Trump supporters than Clinton backers. They are also similar in age to many Trump backers: some 54 percent are at least 55 years old. And 67 percent never earned a college degree, compared with 71 percent for Trump supporters and 56 percent for Clinton supporters. Gender-wise, they track more closely with Clinton’s base. Some 60 percent are women. Trump’s base is made up of about 48 percent women, compared with 52 percent for Clinton. The most recent Reuters/Ipsos poll found Clinton leading Trump by 4 percentage points in a two-way race. The Democratic nominee has mostly led Trump in the poll this year, but the gap between the two candidates has narrowed with six weeks left before the Nov. 8 election.  With neither candidate a clear favorite on issues like creating jobs or keeping the nation safe, nearly a third of uncommitted voters said they may be more likely to vote for a third-party candidate than for either Clinton or Trump. “One of the most important issues in this election is just making sure that our country has a future both through education and jobs,” said undecided voter Erika Szotek, 43, of Hanover Park, Illinois, who voted for Romney in 2012. She said she thought Trump’s “flamboyancy is going to get the country into a lot of trouble with other countries.” But she isn’t sold on Clinton either. “There are some things I just don’t trust about her.”  Women have been a lingering problem for Trump, whose unfiltered speaking style and fiery rhetoric on immigration and security have put many off. He has also gotten into trouble for some remarks he has made about women. He was widely criticized for saying Fox News host Megyn Kelly had “blood coming out of her wherever,” a comment many interpreted as referring to her menstruating, although he insisted that was not what he meant.  He has also called television personality Rosie O’Donnell a “fat pig” and made fun of former presidential rival and ex-Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina’s face, saying, “Would anyone vote for that?” Clinton’s campaign has seized on the vulnerability. This week it launched an ad titled “Mirrors” that shows images of girls looking in mirrors while recordings of Trump comment on women’s weight and breast size, calling them “slob,” “pig,” and “fat.”   But Clinton has her own troubles. Multiple polls show that her use of a private email server without approval while secretary of state has deepened voters’ mistrust of her even though she has since acknowledged it was a mistake. Trump frequently calls her “Crooked Hillary.” FBI director James Comey recommended in July that no criminal charges be brought against Clinton for her handling of classified information while she was secretary of state, but he called her use of the server “extremely careless.”     Ruth Hammett, 77, of Kingsland, Georgia, said she would be looking to the debates for guidance on which candidate to support. She is leaning toward Clinton but wants to hear both candidates address national security.    “I’m very scared, most so for my kids and my grandkids,” Hammett said. “I’m scared to death.” |

Article 3413 | Date: October 12, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Clinton aides sought to minimize fallout with White House on Keystone: emails |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign looked for ways to avoid damaging its relationship with the White House as she considered how to publicly announce her position on the controversial Keystone XL pipeline, according to emails published this week by WikiLeaks. Clinton aides weighed having the Democratic candidate say she opposed the pipeline in a closed-door union meeting, leaking it to news media outlets or including it without fanfare in a policy fact sheet, the emails show. Clinton eventually announced that she opposed the pipeline on Sept. 22, 2015, at a town hall event in Des Moines, Iowa, early in the contest to win the Democratic presidential nomination. President Barack Obama, also a Democrat, announced that he too opposed the project on Nov. 6, 2015. The WikiLeaks group released its latest batch of apparently hacked personal emails of Clinton campaign chair John Podesta on Wednesday, just weeks before the Nov. 8 presidential election in which Clinton is facing Republican Donald Trump. Whether Clinton would oppose TransCanada Corp’s pipeline to bring Canadian crude tar sands oil to refineries on the Gulf of Mexico was a major issue in her Democratic primary race against chief rival U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, who opposed the project. Clinton was walking a fine line on supporting or opposing the pipeline. The Keystone XL controversy put at odds labor unions, which thought the project would spur job creation, and environmentalists, who advocated moving away from tar sands-derived oil to cleaner forms of energy. Clinton’s decision was further complicated by the fact that the pipeline approval process began when she was Obama’s secretary of state from 2009-2013. She said repeatedly that she would wait to announce her position until after the State Department had repeated its review of the project, in deference to her former boss. Privately, aides were figuring out the best way to announce her opposition to the project. “We are trying to find a good way to leak her opposition to the pipeline without her having to actually say it and give up her principled stand about not second-guessing the President in public,” speechwriter Dan Schwerin wrote on Aug. 7, 2015, in one of the apparently hacked emails. Schwerin was responding to a suggestion by Clinton Campaign Manager Robby Mook that they could use the Keystone announcement to draw news media attention away from Clinton’s use of a private email system while she headed the State Department. The Clinton campaign has declined to verify the authenticity of the Podesta emails released by WikiLeaks. Podesta told reporters on Tuesday that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had notified him it was investigating the “criminal” hack of his emails as part of a broader probe. The White House last week formally accused Russia of hacking Democratic Party organizations in an effort to influence the presidential election, a charge Russia has denied. As a result, Clinton campaign officials and supporters have warned that such email releases could include fraudulent or misleading documents among genuine emails. There was no evidence to indicate that the Keystone emails - which provided insight into the campaign’s struggle to announce Clinton’s position on a major Democratic issue that could put her at odds with the White House - were not genuine. Clinton’s campaign considered having the former secretary of state address the Keystone issue in a private meeting with a building trades union, then immediately roll out a fact sheet on her infrastructure proposals and publish an opinion article on the topic, the leaked emails show. But Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon thought it might be easier to forgo including Keystone in the policy rollout, skip the opinion piece and have Clinton state her opposition in the union meeting. “I think we could seem consistent with our past statements about not wanting to get ahead of POTUS on Keystone if her position merely leaked out of the meeting,” Fallon wrote in a Sept. 8, 2015, email, using an acronym for the president. “That would seem like a private comment that she didn’t intend to become public.” “Perhaps we could just issue an infrastructure fact sheet” without mention of Keystone, “and rely on the (Clinton) Keystone (position) to leak, either organically or with an assist from us,” Fallon added. After Clinton warned at a New Hampshire campaign event on Sept. 17, 2015, that she could not “wait too much longer” and was “putting the White House on notice” that she would soon tell voters her position, Podesta checked in with White House Chief of Staff Denis McDonough. “Trying to calibrate whether we are threading the needle ok with you guys after Valerie getting her nose out of joint on Keystone,” Podesta wrote in a Sept. 20, 2015, email, in an apparent reference to Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Obama. Podesta said that Clinton’s “comments on being frustrated with the delay” were not a “frontal attack” on the president. |

Article 3681 | Date: November 4, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Ex-Christie associates guilty in New Jersey 'Bridgegate' scandal |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Two former associates of New Jersey Governor Chris Christie were convicted on Friday for their roles in the “Bridgegate” lane closure scandal, following a six-week trial that served to further tarnish the Republican’s damaged reputation. Bridget Kelly, the governor’s former deputy chief of staff, and Bill Baroni, former deputy executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, were found guilty in Newark federal court on all counts. They were convicted of fraud, conspiracy and depriving the residents of Fort Lee, New Jersey, of their civil rights. Christie, who is in charge of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s transition team, has not been criminally charged, but the scandal has torpedoed what was once seen as a promising political career. Christie on Friday again denied having had any advance knowledge of the scheme to choke traffic heading for the busy George Washington Bridge, which links New Jersey and Manhattan.  “I had no knowledge prior to or during these lane realignments, and had no role in authorizing them,” Christie said in a statement following the verdict. “Anything said to the contrary over the past six weeks in court is simply untrue.” The scandal has dogged Christie, once seen as a potential presidential nominee before his campaign for the White House failed this year. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta said on Friday Trump should ask Christie to resign as head of his transition team. Legal experts have said it is unlikely Christie would face any criminal consequences based on the trial testimony.  Baroni and Kelly were accused of shutting down access lanes to the bridge in September 2013 in Fort Lee, New Jersey, creating a massive days-long traffic jam to punish the town’s mayor, Mark Sokolich, a Democrat, for declining to endorse Christie’s reelection campaign. The Port Authority, which runs the bridge, says it is the world’s busiest, carrying 102 million vehicles a year on the I-95 interstate highway, a major east coast traffic artery. Lawyers for Kelly and Baroni vowed to appeal. “This is not over,” Kelly’s lawyer Michael Critchley said outside the courthouse, with his arm around his weeping client. He said the judge had erred during jury instructions. Defense lawyers were furious when U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton told jurors in response to a question they could convict Kelly and Baroni on conspiracy even if the act itself was not “intentionally punitive toward Mayor Sokolich.” Wigenton said prosecutors did not have to prove motive, even though their case had revolved around the political retribution. “By answering the way you’re answering, you’re directing a verdict of guilty,” an angry Critchley told Wigenton on Tuesday. Baroni’s lawyer, Michael Baldassare, told reporters the case was a “disgrace” and said the conviction would be overturned. “I am innocent of these charges,” a smiling Baroni said. Kelly and Baroni’s co-conspirator, former Port Authority official and confessed mastermind David Wildstein, had earlier pleaded guilty and appeared as the government’s star witness, detailing how the three schemed to pay back Sokolich. But Wildstein also implicated Christie, saying he and Baroni discussed the lane closures with the governor while they were ongoing. Christie, Wildstein testified, laughed at the notion that Sokolich was frustrated by the traffic. At the time, Christie believed that securing the backing of Democratic officials would burnish his national reputation, according to trial testimony. Kelly, who took the stand in her defense, testified she had discussed the lane closures with Christie a month beforehand, though she said she thought at the time they were part of a legitimate traffic study. “I take no pleasure in this verdict,” said U.S. Attorney of New Jersey Paul Fishman, a successor of Christie in that position. Fishman, whose office prosecuted the case, said he was saddened by the conduct of top government officials. Kelly and Baroni’s lawyers argued that Wildstein had orchestrated the plot himself and told them he was conducting a traffic study. Wildstein said on the stand the three of them knew all along that the study was a bogus cover story. Prosecutors showed jurors numerous exchanges that Kelly and Baroni each had with Wildstein, who operated as liaison between Baroni at the Port Authority and Kelly in the governor’s office. Those included Kelly’s now-infamous email to Wildstein that prosecutors said launched the scheme, in which she wrote, “Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee.” Kelly and Baroni are scheduled to be sentenced on Feb. 21. Each faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison on the most serious charge of fraud, though it is unlikely they would receive such a lengthy term. |

Article 3710 | Date: November 5, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Freedom or 'fool's errand'? D.C. to vote on statehood referendum |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Long-frustrated backers of statehood for the District of Columbia are pinning their hopes on a first-ever referendum on Tuesday in a long-shot bid to become the 51st U.S. state. Invoking the colonial-era demand of “no taxation without representation,” supporters say becoming a state would end Washingtonians’ status as second-class citizens because they lack representation in Congress. But opponents dismiss the referendum as a “fool’s errand”  destined to fail because of partisan political hurdles and the need to amend the U.S. Constitution, a procedure accomplished only 17 times since 1789. The District of Columbia was carved out to serve as the nation’s capital, but it is not a state. Its 672,000 residents have no voting representative in the Senate or House of Representatives although they pay federal taxes, though they do have a delegate in the House.   A “yes” vote could help pressure the new Congress and president - either Democrat Hillary Clinton or Republican Donald Trump - to admit the District of Columbia as a new state, though even advocates admit that is unlikely anytime soon. A “yes” vote would simply be an expression of public support for statehood, a non-binding measure without any legal force. “Statehood’s the only way that we can have the same rights and responsibilities as all the other citizens of the United States,” District of Columbia Council Chairman Phil Mendelson said. The overwhelmingly Democratic capital city was fed up with Republican lawmakers espousing the rights of states and cities to self-governance and then interfering with local issues such as abortion and marijuana legalization, Mendelson said. “That’s so antithetical to democratic principles, but that doesn’t seem to bother some of these folks,” he said. The referendum seeks to upend the Constitution’s provision giving Congress legislative control over the District of Columbia. Voters will cast a single “yes” or “no” vote on the referendum’s four parts: admission as a state, its boundaries, approval of a constitution, and guarantees of a representative form of government. The new state would embrace the current 68-square-mile (176-square-km) district except for a core of federal property around the White House, Capitol and monument-rich National Mall.  The District Council approved the referendum unanimously, and a Washington Post poll in November 2015 showed 67 percent of residents backed statehood. The Democratic Party’s national platform also supports the idea. “If you’re not part of a state, large parts of the constitution don’t apply to you,” said statehood advocate Ann Loikow. Mayor Muriel Bowser and other statehood backers took the vote’s design from the successful bid in the 1790s by Tennessee, then a federal territory, to become a state through a referendum and petition to Congress. Supporters and skeptics say that even if the referendum passes it would face a dead end in Congress, where Republicans would oppose statehood since it would add Democratic senators and a representative to Congress. Besides the political obstacles, Roger Pilon, a constitutional scholar at the libertarian Cato Institute, called the statehood quest a “fool’s errand” because of constitutional obstacles. For the District to become a state, Congress would have to propose an amendment to the Constitution, which would then have to win a two-thirds majority vote in both the Senate and the House.  Even if an amendment could win approval in both houses of Congress, it would face another big hurdle: approval by the legislatures of at least three-fourths of the 50 states. Washingtonians have tried to achieve statehood before, but never by an up-or-down referendum. Congress ignored a statehood petition that included a constitution voters ratified in the 1980s. The House of Representatives rejected a statehood bill in 1993, and it failed to reach a Senate vote. A constitutional amendment for voting rights in Congress fizzled in the 1980s. |

Article 3852 | Date: November 9, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Turkey hopes for better cooperation with Trump on fighting terror: PM |
 | Content: ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Wednesday he hoped for an improvement in ties with the United States after Donald Trump’s election victory, and called for the extradition of the U.S.-based cleric Turkey blames for a failed July coup. President Tayyip Erdogan, whose relations with outgoing U.S. President Barack Obama have at times been strained, meanwhile said he hoped Trump’s victory would lead to “beneficial steps” for the Middle East and for basic rights and freedoms. Turkey has been frustrated by what it sees as Washington’s reluctance to hand over cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom it accuses of masterminding an abortive putsch four months ago and who has lived in exile in Pennsylvania since 1999. “An area of opportunity has been created for the new president to advance relations with policies taking into account Turkey’s fight against terror,” Yildirim said in a speech broadcast on Turkish television. “A new page will be opened for Turkish-U.S. friendship if you soon hand over the terror group leader who has harmed the friendship between the U.S. and Turkey,” he said, in reference to Gulen. The cleric denies involvement in July’s failed coup. Turkey, a NATO member and sometimes fractious ally in the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State, has also been angered by U.S. support for the Kurdish YPG militia in Syria, which it sees as a hostile force linked to Kurdish militants who have fought the Turkish state for more than three decades. A senior Turkish official told Reuters that statements from Trump indicating he would withdraw support from “terror groups” was critically important for Turkey. “We expect the development of better relations in the period ahead,” the official said. “It is a positive development in itself that the United States will put a distance between itself and terror groups like the YPG, and it will be an important step for establishing healthier balances in the Middle East.” Erdogan made only brief reference to the U.S. election result at the end of a speech to a business forum in Istanbul. “I hope that this choice of the American people will lead to beneficial steps being taken for the world concerning basic rights and freedoms, democracy and developments in our region,” he said. |

Article 3867 | Date: November 9, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: With Trump win, Republican chairman Priebus emerges as key adviser |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Donald Trump’s White House victory puts a spotlight on Reince Priebus, an establishment Republican figure who emerged as a trusted adviser to the New York businessman and helped encourage discipline in the campaign’s final weeks. Priebus, chairman of the Republican National Committee, has been mentioned as a contender for chief of staff. In a pre-election interview, Priebus told Reuters that Trump won over voters who were frustrated with Washington and its politicians. “They viewed Donald Trump as the antidote to so many things that they’re frustrated with, whether it be Washington, whether it be their job, whether it be what they were promised, and all sorts of things in life, and how it wasn’t delivered,” he said. “And Trump was the antidote to all of those feelings.” Trump’s victory was a vindication for Priebus, who refused to bow to pressure to distance the party apparatus from him. He talked to Trump almost every day, sometimes more than once a day, and frequently traveled with the candidate. He helped prepare him for Trump’s debates against Democrat Hillary Clinton. Trump made clear his high regard for Priebus when he invited him on stage during his victory speech early Wednesday morning and asked him to say a few words. Comparing Priebus to the race horse Secretariat, Trump said, “I tell you Reince is really a star and he is the hardest-working guy.” Henry Barbour, an RNC member from Mississippi, said Priebus had “developed a position of trust” with Trump. “He had regular conversations with Trump about different ideas and not surprisingly some ideas Trump had were probably not the greatest and Reince kind of talked him off some of those cliffs,” he said. Once Trump vanquished 16 seasoned politicians to win the Republican presidential nomination, Priebus threw the weight of the RNC behind Trump and built a voter turnout effort that paid off despite Trump’s refusal to invest more money in it. “He has been a prodigious fundraiser. He invested heavily in bringing our data and analytics up to speed, and he put the full resources of the RNC to help build out the Trump campaign,” said Steve Duprey, a prominent Republican from New Hampshire.  “And he helped coach Donald Trump in how to be a presidential candidate.”  Trump’s unpredictable nature and views on issues such as trade that break with Republican party orthodoxy have led to rifts with many establishment figures in the party. But Priebus told Reuters that his staunch support for Trump was based on the fact that Trump won more Republican votes than any previous nominee, 14.5 million. “These are the same people who say the party is irrelevant and in the next breath they say that the party ought to singlehandedly nullify the wishes of 14.5 million people,” he said. If Trump had lost, Priebus would have faced pressure to step down as party chairman, since he also presided over the loss of Mitt Romney in 2012. He remains extremely popular among the 168 elected members of the RNC who would most likely re-elect him. Priebus is being talked about for re-election at the RNC or possibly being appointed by Trump to serve as his White House chief of staff, where he may be a potential conduit between Trump and Paul Ryan, the speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. Both Priebus and Ryan hail from Wisconsin and are friends. “We hope Priebus goes into the Trump White House in a senior position,” said Scott Reed, a prominent Republican strategist in Washington. Asked whether he would seek re-election as RNC chairman, Priebus said he did not yet know. “I’ve honestly put that in a box and decided that I would deal with it Wednesday or Thursday, kind of think about it a little bit, kind of see where things are at,” he said. |

Article 3952 | Date: November 12, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Britain's Brexit firebrand Farage meets Trump in New York |
 | Content: NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Leading Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage visited Donald Trump at his home on Saturday, after suggesting he could act as a go-between to help smooth British relations with the U.S. president-elect. British Prime Minister Theresa May is not expected to meet the incoming leader until early next year and Farage has suggested her criticisms of Trump in the early days of the campaign could damage ties with Washington.     “We’re just tourists!” Farage, head of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), told reporters as he waited for an elevator to take him up to the meeting at Trump Tower in New York City. He later tweeted a photograph of himself with Trump standing in front of a pair of golden doors and smiling broadly, the president-elect giving the camera a thumbs-up. “It was a great honor to spend time with @realDonaldTrump,” Farage tweeted. “He was relaxed and full of good ideas. I’m confident he will be a good President.”     Trump’s election campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said: “I think they enjoy each other’s company, and they actually had a chance to talk about freedom and winning and what this all means for the world.”  In a separate photograph posted on Twitter, UKIP donor Arron Banks, Breitbart London Editor in Chief Raheem Kassam, and Gerry Gunster, an American whose advocacy firm worked on the Brexit campaign, were also pictured with Trump and Farage.  May - who spoke to Trump by phone on Thursday - and her predecessor David Cameron last year described Trump as “divisive” and “wrong” over his call to ban Muslims from entering the United States. At that time he was not considered likely to win the presidency. In a leaked diplomatic telegram, sent on Nov. 9 and printed in the Sunday Times newspaper, Britain’s ambassador to Washington, Kim Darroch, said he believed Britain had built better relationships with Trump’s team than other foreign diplomats. “(Trump) is above all an outsider and an unknown quantity, whose campaign pronouncements may reveal his instincts, but will surely evolve and, particularly, be open to outside influence if pitched right,” he said. “We should be well placed to do this.” While the British government has congratulated Trump on his election, the head of the opposition, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, said he should “grow up” on the immigration issue and recognize that the U.S. economy depends on migrant workers.  “The treatment of Mexico by the United States, just as much as its absurd and abusive language towards Muslims, is something that has to be challenged and should be challenged,” Corbyn, whose wife is Mexican, told the BBC on Sunday. UKIP, which has only one member of parliament in London, said Farage and Trump spent more than an hour discussing Trump’s victory, global politics and Brexit. A UKIP official has suggested Farage could even be the next ambassador to the United States, but British media reported that May’s office rejected the idea of any role for Farage, citing unnamed sources who described him as an “irrelevance”. A day after Trump’s election victory, Farage called on the real estate mogul to reverse “loathsome” Barack Obama’s policy by making Britain his top priority.  Farage said he had been pleased at Trump’s “very positive reaction” to the idea that a bust of former British prime minister Winston Churchill be put back in the Oval Office. He has also joked about sexual assault allegations against Trump, urging him to “schmooze” May but not touch her. He proposed that in any meetings between the British and American leaders, he could attend to be the “responsible adult to make sure everything is OK.”     Farage, who spoke at a Trump rally during the election campaign, had predicted the former reality TV host would tap into the same dissatisfaction among voters that led to Britain deciding on June 23 to leave the European Union. Trump made repeated references to Brexit during his campaign, saying it had highlighted the desire for change among voters frustrated with traditional politics. (Story refiles to add dropped word “the” in first paragraph.) |

Article 4078 | Date: November 18, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: With Trump victory, blunt U.S. general gets second chance |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - On his way to the polls on election day, Michael Flynn pulled out his phone and took a video of himself saying his vote for Donald Trump was part of a larger fight against “the dishonesty and deceit of our government.” For Flynn, a retired U.S. Army three-star general and one of Trump’s closest advisers, it was another parting shot at an administration he thinks unfairly fired him from the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in 2014 for telling hard truths about the war on Islamist extremism. Named on Thursday to become Trump’s national security adviser, Flynn is now poised for a second act in public life – and he has promised nothing short of an upheaval.    “We just went through a revolution,” Flynn, 57, told a forum on Saturday. “This is probably the biggest election in our nation’s history, since bringing on George Washington when he decided not to be a king. That’s how important this is.” Flynn’s advocates say his experience battling radical Islamist militants in Iraq and Afghanistan, along with candor that has ruffled feathers in Washington more than once, makes him the kind of ally Trump needs on his national security team. David Deptula, a retired Air Force lieutenant general who used to work with Flynn, praised his willingness to “speak truth to power and not politicize his answers.” “Mike Flynn is a straight shooter and a no-bullshit kind of guy. And that’s exactly what we need in terms of senior leaders giving advice to the national leadership,” Deptula said. His critics voice concerns about a management style that alienated some of his subordinates at DIA, a lumbering bureaucracy that Flynn sought to shake up. That’s an explanation some gave for why he was pushed into retirement. Flynn could not be reached for comment. Several former U.S. officials who worked closely with Flynn described him as extremely smart but a poor manager who advocated a precipitous overhaul of the DIA that ignited hostility and resistance from veteran intelligence officials. “Flynn understood that DIA was a mess,” one said. “But he telegraphed his intent for radical change in a way that he immediately created resistance to his ideas, no matter their merits.” Two other former officials also said they had concerns about Flynn’s management style, a potential liability in a White House job that requires coordinating U.S. policy and resolving disagreements among senior officials at different agencies. One of the officials said senior career DIA officials and other agency employees held Flynn responsible for an offensive “Dress for Success” presentation that was distributed to the workforce in January 2013. It recommended gender-specific fashion guidelines, urged people to “consider your body type” and said makeup made women “more attractive.”     Flynn apologized for the presentation in a subsequent memo that said neither he nor the agency “condone this briefing.” Flynn’s policy views suggest he will take a more aggressive approach against Islamist militants. Former colleagues expect his effort to bolster America’s battle against jihadists to be shaped by his belief that the United States is losing a global war against Islamist extremism that may last for generations. In a new book Flynn co-authored, he prescribes a harder political line on Iran, including information warfare to expose shortcomings in Iran’s revolution. Like Trump, Flynn calls the 2003 invasion of Iraq a strategic blunder and says that energy should have been directed instead toward political support for opponents of Iran’s theocratic rulers. He shares Trump’s vision of warmer relations with Israel  but also advocates stronger ties with Egypt, whose autocratic president, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, ousted the Muslim Brotherhood and was the first world leader to congratulate Trump on his victory. Flynn’s appearances on Russia’s government-run broadcaster RT, particularly at a gala last year attended by President Vladimir Putin, have also raised eyebrows in military circles.  However, he has also expressed skepticism about Moscow’s intentions - a view that does not seem to fit Trump’s vision of a new era of detente with the Kremlin.  Although he has more experience battling the Taliban, al Qaeda and other militant groups than anyone else in Trump’s inner circle, Flynn’s critics in the intelligence community and the military question whether his ouster from the DIA has changed him. “The whole experience seems to have made him bitter,” said another former U.S. official who worked with Flynn and spoke on condition of anonymity. Representative Adam Schiff, the senior Democrat on the House intelligence committee, questioned Flynn’s temperament, saying Trump needs someone more steady and “thorough in their analysis” to temper him.  “I’m not sure that’s what you get with General Flynn. And I would be worried about an impulsive president with an impulsive security adviser,” Schiff told CNN. Former colleagues are alarmed by his adoption of Trump’s divisive campaign rhetoric - including leading chants of “Lock Her Up!” aimed at Hillary Clinton during the Republican National Convention and saying on Twitter “Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL.” “I think what you have is frustration that eventually turns to anger after he leaves,” said this former U.S. official. “He was frustrated over DIA; he was frustrated over administration policy toward Syria; and he’s frustrated and angry over his removal from the Department of Defense.” |

Article 4457 | Date: December 9, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Democrats plot uphill fight against some Trump nominations |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Senate Democrats plan to fight some of President-elect Donald Trump’s choices for top administration jobs, but history and the party’s minority status in the chamber are not on their side. A simple majority of 51 votes is needed in the 100-member Senate to confirm nominations. Louisiana will select its newest senator on Saturday. If the Republicans, as expected, hold on to the seat, they will control at least 52 seats in the chamber next year. Senate Republicans said on Thursday they were confident of winning Cabinet confirmations early next year. Nonetheless, some Democrats said they hoped to persuade a few Republicans to help them block a Trump nominee or two, following the Republican Trump’s inauguration on Jan. 20, when a newly installed Senate starts reviewing his nominations. That could be just brave talk from Democrats. The Senate has rejected only nine of 719 Cabinet nominations in U.S. history, not counting nominees who have withdrawn when facing certain defeat, according to congressional records. The last rejection was in 1989, when the Senate blocked Republican President George H.W. Bush’s nomination of Senator John Tower to be defense secretary. In 2013, Democratic President Barack Obama had trouble getting Chuck Hagel confirmed as defense secretary, but he ultimately prevailed. This time around, Democrats said their top targets included  U.S. Representative Tom Price as head of the Department of Health and Human Services, and Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as Environmental Protection Agency administrator. Former New York investment banker and hedge fund investor Steven Mnuchin, tapped by Trump to become Treasury secretary, is also drawing the ire of Democrats, who will be in the minority in both the new Senate and House of Representatives in 2017. Trump’s path toward Senate confirmations of nominees will be easier than the one faced by most of his predecessors. In 2013, Senate Democrats, frustrated by Republicans blocking Obama’s choices for federal judges, used their majority status at the time to eliminate “filibusters” against executive and judicial branch nominations, except the Supreme Court. That meant only 51 votes were needed for confirmations, rather than 60. Pruitt is a climate change skeptic who has participated in lawsuits trying to stop the EPA from carrying out clean-air regulations. As a nominee, he will embody “the fossil fuel and anti-clean air and clean water movement. ... I like those odds,” Democratic Senator Edward Markey said of the fight ahead. In 2009, when in the House, Markey was a leader in the fight for legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who was an ally at the time in that failed battle, said in a brief interview that while he did not know Pruitt: “I appreciate his passion for fighting back against things he thought were an overreach” by federal agencies. Price is high on the Democrats’ target list, according to a senior Senate Democratic aide, who asked not to be identified,  Defending Medicare, the federal healthcare program for the elderly, is a top priority of congressional Democrats. Price supports limiting some Medicare benefits. He also opposes government funding for women’s healthcare provider Planned Parenthood. That could help Democrats win support for blocking Price from moderate Republicans such as Susan Collins or Lisa Murkowski, the senior aide said. A spokeswoman for Murkowski said she had not expressed an opinion on the Price nomination. Collins and her aides were not immediately available for comment. A second senior Senate Democratic aide said some Republicans up for re-election in 2018 could be uncomfortable voting for Price because of his Medicare stance. But Graham said Price “has been the heart and soul of the Republican alternative to Obamacare. I can’t imagine any Republican voting against him.” Republican Senator Jeff Sessions has been chosen by Trump to be attorney general. Democrats plan to highlight his hardline stances on illegal immigration, as well as remind colleagues that a Republican-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee rejected Sessions’ nomination for a federal judgeship in 1986 amid allegations that he had made racist remarks, which he denied. If the debate stokes strong opposition to Sessions,   Republicans might have to scramble to win his confirmation. That could especially be true if the Alabama lawmaker follows a long-held practice of senators of merely voting “present” on their own confirmations, meaning Democrats would be one vote closer to defeating him. |

Article 4625 | Date: December 20, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Aghast at Iran's Syria gains, Gulf Arabs see potential in Trump |
 | Content: RIYADH (Reuters) - “Where are you, Oh Arabs, Oh Muslims, while we are being slaughtered?”  An old man’s cry, in a video posted online from Aleppo’s ruins, poses an uncomfortable question for the mainly Sunni Muslim Arab states backing rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad and his allies Iran and Russia.  For Saudi Arabia, locked in a regional struggle with Iran, Assad’s capture of the rebel haven reflects a dangerous tilt in the Middle East balance of power toward Tehran. Dismayed by this boost to Iranian ambitions for a “Shi’ite crescent” of influence from Afghanistan to the Mediterranean, Riyadh is determined to reverse Tehran’s gains sooner or later. Countering Iran, buoyed by its 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, remains central to Gulf Arab policy but it is not clear how this might be achieved, especially when other concerns are multiplying. Beset by low oil prices, at war in Yemen, and ties with Egypt strained, Riyadh and Gulf allies are questioning how much armed help they should now give the rebels, diplomats say. The monarchies are frustrated with President Barack Obama’s light touch approach to the war - relying on local fighters instead of large U.S. military deployments or missile strikes. President-elect Donald Trump poses an intriguing contrast. Seen as more decisive than Obama, Trump’s choices of James Mattis, a retired Marine general distrustful of Iran, as Defense Secretary, and oil man Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State, have pleased Gulf Arab energy exporters. But much remains uncertain, not least Trump’s admiration for Russian President Vladimir Putin, an Assad ally. “What we have learned from the U.S. election is to wait for actions, not words,” said former Saudi intelligence chief Prince Turki al-Faisal. A senior Western diplomat said Saudi officials were curious to see how Trump translates into policy his campaign criticism of Iran and his praise of Putin. Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said he had spent time in the United States to sound out the next administration.  Officials said Gulf states were asking Trump associates about Syria, to assess whether he would pursue a U.S.-led effort with Gulf states, Turkey and Western nations to arm the rebels. Trump has indicated he may abandon the rebels to focus on fighting Islamic State.  Gulf Arab states want to test that view, said one Western official. A Gulf state foreign ministry official described Trump as “a businessman with whom you can make a deal”. Gulf humanitarian aid will remain: Sunni Arab societies will not accept curbs on relief to the mostly Sunni country, after a war that has forced 5 million Syrians to flee and killed 300,000. But the extent of their armed support appears in question. Qatar, with Saudi Arabia the most enthusiastic backer of the rebels, says it would prefer to continue military aid but insists this should remain a collective effort.  Proclaiming “great faith” in Trump, Asaad al-Zoubi, Saudi-based chief negotiator for the main opposition body, the High Negotiations Council, said some rebel backers had met Trump advisers to explain their cause. “They did not receive an answer from Trump’s people. They (the advisers) wanted to listen more than they wanted to answer,” he said. Sami alFaraj, a security adviser to the Gulf Cooperation Council of six Gulf Arab states, told Reuters that the Gulf countries “need to regroup, have a strategic pause and look at how we pursue our objectives in the time ahead.” “The Syrian case has not been closed,” he said. They would push for a transitional administration in Syria - something neither Assad nor Tehran accepts. Any notion of Gulf Arab leverage in future negotiations   seems far-fetched, given the determination of Assad, Moscow and Tehran to carve out territorial gains. But Jubeir told the Arab League in Cairo that if world powers failed to constrain Assad there would be no political solution to the war. “If we cannot find an effective way to pressure the Syrian regime, we will not reach a political solution and the killing, displacement, and injustice in Syria will go on,” Jubeir said. While drawn to Trump, the Gulf monarchies feel his views are not fully formed, and they want to do nothing that might cause him to harm their interests. AlFaraj said he expected Trump to deal favorably with Gulf states, which have the wealth to help create U.S. jobs. He believed a suggestion by Trump that Gulf states pay for safe zones in Syria was worth considering. “If he wants to create jobs there is no better field than selling weapons,” alFaraj said. “We are the only people who have surplus cash.” However, Arab resentment at Western inaction over Syria appears deep and enduring. Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman al Khalifa, foreign minister of Bahrain, an ally of Riyadh, told Reuters: “The whole thing in Syria was because of disengagement from world powers about how to deal with the matter. So with all the changes in the political leadership (in the West) let’s hope for some new commitment for Syria.” Asked if it was realistic to back rebels who had lost their major urban stronghold, he replied: “Do you think its realistic that we should also allow such bloodshed and people dying to go on and on and on. What’s the next city after Aleppo?” |

Article 5126 | Date: January 23, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's spokesman promises reporters 'never to lie' |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s press secretary promised reporters on Monday that he would never lie after a weekend briefing in which he made statements about the crowd size for Trump’s inauguration that were debunked. In comments to reporters on Saturday that became known as the “alternative facts” briefing, White House spokesman Sean Spicer declared that Trump’s crowd was “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration - period.” Photographs showed the crowds at Trump’s swearing-in on Friday were smaller than Barack Obama’s first presidential inauguration in 2009. Spicer’s statement drew further criticism after Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said on Sunday the White House had wanted to “put alternative facts out there” to counter what she said was a biased media.  At his first formal White House briefing on Monday, Spicer was asked by a reporter if he intended to always tell the truth from the lectern. “Our intention is never to lie to you,” he replied. Spicer defended his right to give the administration’s point of view. He said he had been including television and online viewers in his remarks on Saturday about the size of the inauguration crowd. He told reporters that Trump and his advisers had been frustrated by “demoralizing” coverage that he called a “constant attempt to undermine his credibility.” “I want to have a healthy relationship with the press,” Spicer said. Spicer answered questions on a wide range of policy issues, with a focus on trade policy. He did not take questions from reporters on Saturday. “That moves it away from the acrimonious session on Saturday,” said Martha Kumar, a political scientist and emeritus professor at Towson University in Maryland who studies the relationship between the White House and its press corps. Spicer took questions from 43 reporters - more than twice  the average, Kumar said in an interview. He also said he would start taking questions from four “Skype seats” later this week to allow news organizations outside of Washington to participate. |

Article 5331 | Date: January 28, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's refugee ban no solution to problems, Turkey PM says |
 | Content: ANKARA (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s sweeping ban on people seeking refuge in the United States is no solution to problems, Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said on Saturday, adding that Western countries should do more to help ease Turkey’s refugee burden. The new Republican president on Friday put a four-month hold on allowing refugees into the United States and temporarily barred travelers from Syria and six other Muslim-majority countries, although NATO ally Turkey was not among them. When asked by a reporter about Trump’s ban during a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Theresa May in Ankara, Yildirim said: “Regional issues cannot be solved by closing the doors on people. We expect the Western world to lighten Turkey’s burden.” “You can build a wall but it’s not a solution. That wall will come down like the Berlin wall,” he said, adding Turkey has spent some $26 billion on sheltering refugees. May, who met with Trump in Washington a day earlier, told the news conference that the United States was responsible for its position on refugees. She has previously said a “special relationship” between the United States and Britain meant the two countries could speak frankly to each other when they disagreed on issues. [S8N1EY00D] Yildirim said little directly about Trump. “We are not very informed about Trump’s decisions. But problems are solved through dealing with the causes,” he said. Turkey, a member of the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic  State, has been hoping for a reset in its relationship with the Washington under the Trump administration. Ankara was long frustrated by former President Barack Obama’s decision to back a Syrian Kurdish militia. Turkey considers the group a terrorist organization. Turkey is home to the world’s largest refugee population sheltering some 3 million people, most of them Syrians. |

Article 5377 | Date: January 30, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's go-to man Bannon takes hardline view on immigration |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - When Donald Trump’s administration put together its controversial executive order on immigration, it was Steve Bannon – the populist firebrand fast emerging as the president’s right-hand man – pushing a hard line. Senior officials at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) interpreted the order to mean that lawful permanent residents - green card holders – who hailed from the seven Muslim-majority countries targeted in the immigration order would not face additional screening when they entered the country.  But they were quickly overruled by Bannon, who is Trump’s chief strategist and oversaw the drafting of the executive order along with White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller, a close ally of Bannon’s, the officials said. “They were in charge of this operation,” one senior DHS official said, adding that the experts were “almost immediately overruled by the White House, which means by Bannon and Miller.” A senior national security official described the pair as a “tag team” pushing Trump’s key policies, including the immigration order which bars the entry of refugees and places a temporary hold on people from seven countries - Syria, Yemen, Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Somalia and Libya. The inclusion of green card holders from those countries intensified opposition to an executive order that sparked legal challenges, protests at airports and sharp criticism from inside the Republican Party, including from some Trump allies. DHS officials say there was little or no White House consultation with immigration, customs and border security agencies on the immigration policy change, causing widespread confusion over how to implement Trump’s order. A senior administration official said the order went through a review by “key people” at DHS and the White House National Security Council, and that several immigration staff on Capitol Hill were involved in drafting the order.  But officials said Bannon was the driving force throughout. The White House declined to comment on his role. Critics have accused Bannon of harboring anti-Semitic and white nationalist sentiments. Under Bannon’s leadership, his Breitbart website presented a number of conspiracy theories about Trump’s Democratic rival in the 2016 election, Hillary Clinton, as well as Republicans deemed to be lacking in conservative bona fides. Bannon has ascribed his interest in populism and American nationalism to a desire to curb what he views as the corrosive effects of globalization. He has rejected what he called the “ethno-nationalist” tendencies of some in the movement. After becoming chief executive of Trump’s election campaign in August, the former Goldman Sachs banker and Navy veteran helped lead him to victory over Clinton. He was then appointed by Trump as senior counselor and chief strategist - jobs not subject to U.S. Senate confirmation. He has been an almost constant presence by Trump’s side in the first 10 days of the administration - in the White House for a meeting with American manufacturers, at CIA headquarters the day after Trump was sworn in, and in the Oval Office during British Prime Minister Theresa May’s visit. He appears to have greatly expanded his power in the first 10 days of Trump’s presidency. Trump gave him an unprecedented seat in the NSC’s top-level meetings and potentially narrowed the role played by the director of national intelligence (DNI) and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Bannon has also asserted authority over almost all written statements from the White House and the NSC and has sent back documents for rewrites as he sees fit, one NSC official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.  Critics, including four senior U.S. intelligence officers, called the decision to formalize Bannon’s role at the NSC meetings a mistake, saying it risks politicizing decisions on national security. White House spokesman Sean Spicer on Monday defended Bannon’s inclusion in the NSC. Susan Rice, the former national security adviser in former President Barack Obama’s administration, tweeted on Sunday: “This is stone cold crazy. After a week of crazy.”  Bannon and Miller are drowning out the opinions of more moderate advisers like White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, said a senior DHS official and two people in Washington who work closely with the White House on immigration and a range of other issues. One of those people and the DHS official said Priebus felt he had placed enough of his fellow moderate Republicans in key positions at the White House as a counterbalance to Bannon and Miller, but he has been frustrated at their outsized influence so far, especially on issues of immigration and national security.  The White House dismissed the views of the officials as gossip. |

Article 5685 | Date: February 8, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Erdogan, Trump agree joint action against Islamic State in Syria: Turkish sources |
 | Content: ANKARA (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan and U.S. President Donald Trump agreed in an overnight phone call on joint action against Islamic State in the Syrian towns of Raqqa and al-Bab, both held by the militants, Turkish presidency sources said on Wednesday. U.S.-Turkish differences during former President Barack Obama’s administration impeded the U.S.-led campaign against Islamic State, and closer coordination could mean faster progress towards freeing swathes of northern Syria from IS. Erdogan now hopes that relations with Washington, strained by the presence in the United States of a cleric he blames for an attempted military coup last year and by U.S. support for Kurdish militia in Syria, can be reset under Trump. Turkey has the second largest army in the NATO alliance and is key to any success in rolling back and eventually neutralising IS in Syria and Iraq where IS declared a cross-border caliphate after lightning advances in 2014. Turkey has presented a detailed plan to oust Islamic State from its Raqqa urban stronghold in northeastern Syria and strategy discussions with the Trump administration are under way, according to Erdogan’s spokesman, Ibrahim Kalin. “The operational details were not discussed on this call ... Now detailed planning will be conducted in coordination,” he told Turkish broadcaster NTV in an interview. Ankara believes recent IS attacks in Turkey, including a New Year’s Day shooting in an Istanbul nightclub that killed 39 people, have been steered from al-Bab and Raqqa, and regards a clear-out of the towns as a national security priority. Turkish government and Syrian rebel sources said on Wednesday insurgents backed by Turkey’s military had taken the outskirts of al-Bab, northeast of Aleppo. If al-Bab falls, Ankara would strengthen its sway over an area of northern Syria where it has created a de facto buffer zone. Syrian government forces have also advanced on al-Bab from the south, bringing them into close proximity with their Turkish and rebel enemies in one of the most complex battlefields of Syria’s six-year-old civil war. But Turkey said international coordination was under way to prevent clashes with Syrian forces. The White House said that in the phone call, Trump spoke about the two countries’ “shared commitment to combating terrorism in all its forms” and welcomed Turkish contributions to the fight against Islamic State. But it gave few details. Sources in Erdogan’s office said the two leaders had touched on issues including a “safe zone”, as well as the regional migrant crisis and the fight against terrorism. Turkey has long advocated a secure zone for displaced civilians in Syria threatened by Islamist militants or forces fighting for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. They also said Erdogan had urged the United States not to support the Syrian Kurdish YPG militia and that new CIA Director Mike Pompeo would be in Turkey on Thursday to discuss that and other issues with Turkish counterparts. There was no immediate confirmation from Washington of Pompeo’s visit. But the offices of both leaders said Trump had reiterated U.S. support for Turkey “as a strategic partner and NATO ally” during Tuesday’s phone call. Turkey has long urged world powers to help create a safe zone, which it also sees as a way to purge its border of Islamic State and Kurdish militia fighters, and stem a wave of migration that has caused tensions with Europe.  Obama and U.S. allies balked at the idea, saying it would entail significant ground forces and planes to patrol a “no-fly zone”, a dicey commitment in such a crowded and messy conflict. The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), an alliance of U.S.-backed militias, launched a new phase of its campaign against Islamic State in Raqqa on Saturday. Turkey has repeatedly said it wants to be part of the U.S.-led operation to retake Raqqa from the ultra-hardline Sunni militant Islamic State, but does not want the YPG, which is part of the SDF alliance, to be involved. Relations between Erdogan and Obama soured over U.S. support for the YPG, which Ankara regards as a terrorist group and an extension of Kurdish insurgents fighting inside Turkey. The Turkish army and Syrian rebel groups it supports have been fighting IS in a separate campaign around al-Bab, northeast of the city of Aleppo. Ankara has complained in the past about a lack of U.S. support for that campaign. Kalin said there had been better coordination with the U.S.-led coalition on air strikes in the last 10 days. He added that Ankara’s priority remained the creation of a safe zone between the Syrian towns of Azaz and Jarablus, a strip of border territory to the north of al-Bab. The Turkish sources said Pompeo would discuss both the YPG and steps against the network of U.S.-based Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Turkey accuses of orchestrating last July’s coup attempt. Gulen denies any involvement. Turkey has been frustrated by what it considers to be  Washington’s reluctance to hand over Gulen, who has lived in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania since 1999. “As you know, we have two fundamental issues with the U.S. administration inherited from Obama’s period. One is the support given to YPG and the other is the (Gulen) problem,” Kalin said. “Our president spoke about these openly and clearly. Trump was informed on these and, without going into too much detail, he said let’s ask our teams to work on this and let’s give the necessary instructions.” |

Article 5792 | Date: February 14, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Russian hopes of thaw with Trump dented after his top security adviser quits |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia’s parliament applauded on learning that Donald Trump had won the U.S. election. But prospects for better relations with Washington have suffered setbacks since then and the resignation of Trump’s national security adviser is the biggest blow yet. The Kremlin still believes a rapprochement is feasible, even if it might take longer than initially thought. But the clock is ticking: Vladimir Putin is expected to run for another presidential term next year, and an easing in Western sanctions could speed Russia’s recovery from a recession and safeguard his national popularity. For now, Russia plans to keep working with the Trump administration towards a rapprochement, looking to improve the atmosphere. With relations having sunk to a post-Cold War nadir under Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama as a result of Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Crimea, they could hardly get worse. A first meeting between Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, expected in Germany later this week, will give the Kremlin a chance to grasp what Washington is now thinking and where this may lead. The resignation of national security adviser Michael Flynn, who was seen in Moscow as a leading advocate of warmer ties with Russia, has underscored for the Kremlin the difficulties of reaching a settlement with Washington and drove home the urgent need to find new areas of common interest.  Flynn, who shared dinner with Putin in 2015 and favoured Washington uniting with Russia against Islamic State militants, quit on Monday after revelations he had improperly discussed the issue of U.S. sanctions on Russia with the Russian ambassador to Washington before Trump took office. A U.S. official said Flynn indicated to the envoy that the sanctions “would not necessarily carry over to an administration seeking to improve relations between the U.S. and Russia”.  “Flynn, unlike many other high-ranking Americans, was at least open to dialogue,” said Konstantin Kosachev, head of the upper house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee. “Either Trump has not gained the requisite independence and  is being gradually (and not unsuccessfully) backed into a corner, or Russophobia has already infected the new administration.” Other Russian politicians suggested Flynn had been forced to resign to harm relations with Moscow. But the Kremlin, anxious not to feed fears of Russian media manipulation to influence U.S. politics, said only that it was an internal U.S. matter.  Trump came to power talking of wanting cooperative U.S.-Russian relations, for example to take joint action against Islamic State militants. So far, there’s been scant improvement.  Trump spoke by phone to Putin on Jan. 28, but Reuters learnt that the call had not gone smoothly: Trump used it to denounce a treaty that caps U.S. and Russian deployment of nuclear warheads as a bad deal for the United States. The Kremlin is also struggling to set up a meeting. Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, said on Tuesday he could not say when or where the Russian leader would meet Trump and that it was “premature” to even talk about what direction U.S.-Russian relations might take. A series of U.S. Senate confirmation hearings for Trump’s cabinet nominees did not go the Kremlin’s way either, with the incoming defense secretary and secretary of state both raising concerns about the dangers of Russia as an unpredictable military player.  Russian officials are frustrated too that Trump has not yet filled key senior staff positions at the State Department, leaving Russian diplomats feeling they have nobody to work with.    “To have cooperation, you need someone to promote it from the other end,” Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, testily told a news briefing last week. Moscow seems to have been taken aback by the strength of Congressional opposition to Trump overseeing a rapprochement with Russia, a factor that would make it hard for him to ease sanctions even if he wanted to. In a further reverse for the Kremlin, senior U.S. senators have introduced legislation that would give Congress the right to review any move to relax sanctions on Russia. Sergei Kislyak, Russia’s ambassador to the United States, told state television last week Moscow was aware of how difficult the domestic U.S. scene was becoming for Russia.    “Does the lack of political consensus inside the U.S. create problems for our bilateral relations?” Kislyak asked rhetorically. “That is an objective reality.” There were muted expectations in Moscow that Trump might move fast to reverse Obama’s expulsion in December of 35 suspected Russian spies over allegations of Russian-backed cyber attacks on U.S. election campaign groups to help Trump win. Obama shut down two Russian compounds at the same time that he said were used by Russian personnel for “intelligence-related purposes”. Back then, Trump praised Putin for refraining from retaliation, calling him “very smart”. But Trump has given no indication since that he will roll back any of the measures. One of the biggest setbacks for Moscow followed a flare-up in fighting in eastern Ukraine where government forces are facing off against pro-Russian separatist forces.  Before the escalation in January, which both sides blame on each other, the Trump administration gave the impression it was open to looking at reviewing sanctions on Russia. Afterwards, Nikki Haley, the new U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, blamed Russia for the fighting and said Ukraine-related sanctions would not be lifted until Moscow returned Crimea to Ukraine, something Russia says it will never do. Flynn’s resignation may hurt more, though. “Flynn was the main lobbyist for the ‘big deal with Putin’ project,” said Russian opposition activist Ilya Yashin.   “There was nobody in Trump’s entourage who so persistently lobbied to cancel the sanctions as Flynn. Today is a black day for Kremlin diplomacy and for Putin personally.” |

Article 5901 | Date: February 19, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Democrat member of FEC to make early exit: NYT |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A Democrat who sits on the U.S. Federal Election Commission (FEC) is planning to resign before her term expires amid frustrations about partisan gridlock, the New York Times reported on Sunday. FEC Commissioner Ann Ravel told the Times in an interview she intended to submit her letter of resignation this week, a move that would open the door for President Donald Trump to make his own appointment to the panel. “The ability of the commission to perform its role has deteriorated significantly,” Ravel told the newspaper.  “I think I can be more effective on the outside.” Ravel said she was particularly frustrated about split votes among the FEC’s three Democrats and three Republicans. The lack of consensus among the FEC’s members has made it impossible to rein in campaign abuses, she said. Ravel told the New York Times she planned to return to California, where she previously worked as a state regulator identifying dark money that flowed into state elections. |

Article 6263 | Date: March 13, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Kansas senator stands by comparison of Planned Parenthood to Nazis |
 | Content: (Reuters) - A Kansas state senator on Monday declined to back down from comments comparing Planned Parenthood to Nazi concentration camps, which he made after finding out that a donation had been sent to the organization in his name. “Killing people equals killing people,” Republican state Senator Steve Fitzgerald said in a phone interview when asked about the comparison on Monday, referring to abortion.  “Planned Parenthood is killing more people than they did in Nazi Germany,” he said.  The Nazis were responsible for the systematic killing of 6 million Jews, as well as others such as homosexuals, Roma people and political opponents during World War Two. Planned Parenthood provides abortions as well as other women’s health services, including birth control and cancer screenings. It has long been a target of conservative Republicans. Fitzgerald has been in the spotlight since Planned Parenthood on Friday made public a letter from the senator in which he wrote that finding out that a donation had been made to the group in his name was “as bad - or worse - as having one’s name associated with Dachau.” Dachau was a Nazi concentration camp estimated to have been the site of nearly 32,000 killings.  In his letter, Fitzgerald castigated the organization and the donor, Kansas City, Missouri, resident Ali Weinel, calling the move an attempt to “blacken” his name by associating him with a “heinous” group. Weinel said Monday that she made the donation in the senator’s name about a month ago after a contentious email exchange with Fitzgerald, in which he expressed disgust over her views on abortion. “I was so frustrated by the email exchange that the only thing I could think to do was to donate to Planned Parenthood in his honor,” Weinel said. Making donations to the organization in the name of conservative elected officials has become a tactic among some on the left as a way to make a political statement. Planned Parenthood Great Plains spokeswoman Bonyen Lee-Gilmore called Fitzgerald’s concentration camp comparison inflammatory. “We obviously condemn this extreme ideology,” Lee-Gilmore said in a telephone interview on Monday. Lee-Gilmore said that after receiving Weinel’s donation, the organization had last month sent Fitzgerald a form letter, which his Friday letter was apparently a response to. Fitzgerald called the events political theater on the part of Planned Parenthood.  “The letter they sent me was strictly a poke in the eye,” Fitzgerald said. “And I responded to it.” |

Article 6302 | Date: March 15, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Skeptical lawmakers pressure Comey on Trump wiretap claim |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A key Republican lawmaker said on Wednesday he did not believe the Obama administration wiretapped Trump Tower during the 2016 election campaign, adding to pressure on FBI Director James Comey to provide evidence supporting or debunking Republican President Donald Trump’s claim. “We don’t have any evidence that that took place,” House of Representatives Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes told a news conference. “I don’t think there was an actual tap of Trump Tower.” Trump made the claim on Twitter on March 4 without providing evidence. Nunes’ congressional committee is one of at least four that have added the startling accusation to investigations of possible Russian meddling in the election campaign and Russian ties to Trump and his associates. James Clapper, the director of national intelligence under Obama, has said he knew of no warrant to wiretap Trump Tower. Nunes said if Trump’s tweets were taken literally, then “clearly the president was wrong.” With his statements, Nunes, who served on Trump’s transition team, joined other lawmakers, including some of his fellow Republicans, who have been skeptical about the president’s claim, and frustrated with what they see as federal law enforcement’s failure to provide them with information. The top Democrat on the House intelligence panel, Adam Schiff, said at the news conference with Nunes that Comey would be asked about wiretap evidence at a rare public hearing on Monday. “It deeply concerns me that the president would make such an accusation without basis,” Schiff said. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia  conducted cyber attacks on Democrats in an effort to influence the 2016 U.S. election on Trump’s behalf. Russia has denied this. At the same time, Trump has been dogged by allegations that his associates had ties to Russian officials. Trump fired his national security adviser, Michael Flynn, last month after he failed to disclose contacts with Russia’s ambassador before Trump took office on Jan. 20.   Trump seemed to back away from his accusation of wiretapping in a Fox News interview on Wednesday, saying “wiretap covers a lot of different things.” Without providing details, the president added, “I think you’re going to find some very interesting items coming to the forefront over the next two weeks,” according to excerpts of the interview, which will air later on Wednesday. Schiff and Nunes said they sent a letter asking Comey, Rogers and CIA Director Mike Pompeo to provide by Friday information on leaks of classified information, including names of any Americans that might have been gathered. Schiff said he expected the Federal Bureau of Investigation to cooperate. The committee leaders said they were prepared to issue subpoenas if they did not. In Richmond, Virginia, Attorney General Jeff Sessions told reporters that he never gave Trump any reason to believe he was wiretapped by the previous administration, according to a transcript provided by CBS News. While White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters Trump “feels very comfortable” that information existed regarding surveillance conducted during 2016, a number of Trump’s fellow Republicans in Congress remained unconvinced. Spicer told reporters traveling on Air Force One on Wednesday that Trump had not meant wiretaps specifically. “He was very clear that he used the word ‘wiretap’ generally, he put it in quotes to mean that it counts for surveillance and all types of activity of that sort,” Spicer said. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said he had no reason to believe a judge ever issued a warrant, which would have reflected there was probable cause that the Trump campaign was colluding with the Russians. If it is not true, he said, the FBI should confirm that. Graham and Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s subcommittee on crime and terrorism, asked Comey two weeks ago to provide information on Russian activities and the wiretapping by Wednesday.  Graham said on Wednesday that the FBI had responded that it would provide an answer to him and Whitehouse at a future classified briefing. “The bottom line is a lot of Americans are wondering what’s going on here,” Graham said at a subcommittee hearing, titled “The Modus Operandi and Toolbox of Russia and Other Autocracies for Undermining Democracies Throughout the World.” Whitehouse said he would prefer an unclassified briefing. Comey met on Wednesday with the Judiciary Committee chairman, Chuck Grassley, and its top Democrat, Dianne Feinstein. A law enforcement official said the meeting was an opportunity for the senators to ask Comey about subjects that concern them, expected to center on FBI investigations of Trump and associates’ Russia contacts, as well as the wiretap claim. |

Article 6415 | Date: March 20, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's Russian imbroglio prompts Republican rethink on surveillance law |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Some Republican lawmakers appear to be reassessing whether to make changes to a surveillance law that allows broad snooping of Internet communications, citing concerns over the handling of classified intercepts after leaks of conversations between Russian officials and American associates of President Donald Trump. The law, known as Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, allows U.S. intelligence agencies to collect vast amounts of communications from foreigners, but often incidentally scoops up the communications of Americans. Until recently most Republicans have been quick to defend Section 702 and Congress had been expected to renew it without major changes before it expires at the end of the year. Though long criticized by privacy advocates, a new front of potential opposition to Section 702 has emerged as Republicans sputter about what they view as politically motivated leaks by the agencies amid probes of any collusion between the Russian government and Trump’s 2016 presidential election campaign.  The tensions burst into full view on Monday at a U.S. House of Representatives’ Intelligence Committee hearing, during which FBI Director James Comey confirmed his agency was investigating those ties.  Republican Representative Tom Rooney told Comey and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers, who also testified, that concern over leaks would undermine support for Section 702, even though it appears to not have led directly to the leaks Republicans are fuming over. “When we try to retain this tool this year and try to convince some of our colleagues that this is really important for national security and somebody in the intelligence community says, ‘You know what, the hell with it, I’m going to release this person’s name because I’m going to get something out of it,’ we’re all going to be hurt by that,” Rooney said as he removed his glasses in apparent exasperation. While Democrats on the committee focused their questioning of Comey and Rogers on whether Trump aides may have suspicious ties to Russian officials, Republicans repeatedly redirected the conversation to focus on whether enough safeguards were in place to prevent leaks about Americans. U.S. intelligence agencies accused Moscow of attempts to influence the election in favor of Republican Trump, in part by hacking emails of Democratic Party operatives. Russia denies the allegations. Trump has criticized the intelligence agencies and has denied he has had anything to do with Russia. Section 702 surveillance is intended to apply only to foreigners living overseas. Elaborate rules govern incidental coverage of Americans, but the information can sometimes be used  nonetheless. Privacy advocates have said that communications belonging to as many as tens of millions of Americans could be caught up in the searches. Despite the concern about leaks, a White House official told Reuters earlier this month that the Trump administration favored a reauthorization this year of the expiring portions of the FISA without any changes to address privacy concerns. On Monday, several Republicans sought to directly link media reports revealing that Trump’s former national security advisor, Michael Flynn, exchanged calls during the presidential transition with Russian Ambassador Sergei Kislyak about sanctions to the debate about Section 702.  Flynn had told Vice President Mike Pence he did not speak to Kislyak about sanctions, an assertion contradicted by news articles, which cited transcripts of surveillance intercepts and led to Flynn’s ouster. Comey and Rogers both said that Section 702 surveillance was unrelated to how intercepts of Flynn’s calls were collected or leaked to the press, and that such information would have most likely been gathered under a different part of FISA or a wholly separate authority. “That is a distinction that doesn’t make a difference to people watching on television,” Representative Trey Gowdy responded, adding that renewal of Section 702 was “in jeopardy if we don’t get this resolved.” The hearing echoed conversations that took place during a closed meeting with senior intelligence officials this month with the House Judiciary Committee, which is expected to take the lead on writing legislation that will seek reform and renewal of Section 702.  Two sources familiar with the meeting said several lawmakers sought clarity on how many intelligence officials had access to classified surveillance information but were frustrated by the lack of clear answers. Rogers said Monday that 20 people at NSA, including himself, possessed the authority to “unmask” Americans whose communications are ensnared via foreign intelligence programs. A select few officials at other agencies also have the authority, including some at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Justice and the CIA. Section 702 enables sweeping surveillance programs known as Prism and Upstream, which were revealed publicly in 2013 by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. Prism gathers messaging data from Alphabet Inc’s Google , Facebook Inc , Microsoft Corp, Apple Inc and other major tech companies that is sent to and from a foreign target under surveillance. Upstream allows the NSA to copy Web traffic flowing along the internet backbone located inside the United States and search that data. |

Article 6660 | Date: March 30, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: House Speaker Ryan understands Trump's frustration on health bill |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan said on Thursday he understood President Donald Trump’s frustration with Republicans’ failure to agree on healthcare legislation to replace Obamacare. “It’s very understandable that the president is frustrated that we haven’t gotten to where we need to go,” Ryan told reporters when asked about Trump’s tweet saying the conservative House Freedom Caucus was blocking the party’s agenda and vowing to fight them if they did not get on board. Ryan said about 90 percent of Republicans supported the party’s healthcare bill and only about 10 percent opposed it. |

Article 7001 | Date: April 15, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Pence warns North Korea of U.S. resolve shown in Syria, Afghan strikes |
 | Content: SEOUL/PYONGYANG (Reuters) - U.S. Vice President Mike Pence warned North Korea on Monday that recent American military strikes in Syria and Afghanistan showed President Donald Trump’s resolve should not be questioned, but Pyongyang vowed to continue missile and nuclear tests. After a huge display of missiles in Pyongyang and a failed North Korean missile test during the weekend, U.S. officials praised China for stepping up efforts to rein in North Korea, Beijing’s neighbor and ally. But Pence and South Korea’s acting president, Hwang Kyo-ahn, said they would proceed with the early deployment to South Korea of the U.S. THAAD missile-defense system, in spite of Chinese objections. At a White House Easter celebration on Monday, Trump was asked if he had a message for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and replied: “Gotta behave.” But senior North Korean officials remained defiant. North Korea’s deputy representative to the United Nations, Kim In Ryong, accused Washington of creating “a situation where nuclear war could break out an any time” and said Pyongyang’s next nuclear test would take place “at a time and at a place where our headquarters deems necessary.” (Graphic - Carl Vinson strike group: tmsnrt.rs/2pqOMWA) (Graphic - North Korea's nuclear program: tmsnrt.rs/2n0gd92) North Korea’s Vice Foreign Minister Han Song-Ryol told the BBC that missiles would continue to be tested on “a weekly, monthly and yearly basis.”  Kim Song Gyong, director general of the European Department of North Korea’s Foreign Ministry, told Reuters in Pyongyang that if Washington made “the slightest movement” to make a nuclear strike on North Korea, Pyongyang would strike first and “destroy the aggressors without any mercy.” He went on to clarify that the approach of a U.S. naval strike force led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Carl Vinson to Korean waters would not be considered enough to constitute “the slightest movement”. Korean tensions have escalated following repeated North Korean missile tests and concerns that Pyongyang may soon conduct a sixth nuclear bomb test in defiance of U.N. sanctions. Washington is increasingly worried about North Korean efforts to develop a nuclear-tipped missile that could hit the U.S. mainland. Speaking alongside Hwang, Pence said the world had witnessed Trump’s resolve in the past two weeks, which saw a U.S. missile attack on a Syrian airfield and the dropping of a powerful non-nuclear bomb on Islamic State in Afghanistan. “North Korea would do well not to test his resolve or the strength of the armed forces of the United States in this region,” Pence said on what was his first stop of a four-nation Asia tour intended to show that Trump is not turning his back on the increasingly volatile part of the world. Pence, whose father served in the 1950-53 Korean War, visited the North-South border on Monday and said Washington would stand by its “ironclad alliance” with South Korea. “All options are on the table to achieve the objectives and ensure the stability of the people of this country,” he told reporters as tinny propaganda music floated across from the North Korean side of the so-called demilitarized zone (DMZ). The Trump administration has said that military action remains an option for dealing with North Korea. But mindful that this would likely trigger massive retaliation and casualties in South Korea and Japan and among U.S. troops there, U.S. officials say the Trump administration’s main focus is on tougher economic sanctions to try to get Pyongyang to abandon its weapons programs.    Trump himself, when asked on Monday if he was considering military action, told Fox News Channel he didn’t want to “telegraph” his plans like the previous administration. “We’ll see what happens. I hope things work out well,” he said but added that the United States had tried to engage the North Koreans in talks for a long time.  On Sunday, Trump’s national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, said that the United States, its allies and China were working on a range of responses to North Korea’s latest missile test, citing what he called an international consensus to act. He indicated Trump was not considering military action for now, despite the dispatch the carrier group. U.S. officials say tougher sanctions could include an oil embargo, a global ban on North Korea’s airline, intercepting cargo ships and punishing Chinese banks doing business with Pyongyang. They say greater Chinese cooperation is vital.  White House spokesman Sean Spicer said China had taken some “very helpful” steps, although it remained to be seen how effective these would be. Asked if Trump had a “red line” on North Korea, Spicer said the president did not believe these worked.  Susan Thornton, acting U.S. assistant secretary of state for East Asia, said Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and China’s top diplomat, State Councilor Yang Jiechi, agreed in a phone call on Sunday on the need for strict enforcement of U.N. resolutions and for international action to press Pyongyang “to cease provocative actions and recommit to peaceful denuclearization.” Thornton said any new North Korean nuclear test “would draw a pretty significant international response.” “We’re definitely not seeking conflict or regime change,” she said. “But we are committed to defending our people and our allies should it be necessary.” Pence is expected to discuss Korean tensions with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday when he travels to Tokyo for economic talks with Finance Minister Taro Aso. He will also visit Jakarta and Sydney. His economic discussions will be closely watched to see how hard a line Washington is prepared to take on trade. Trump campaigned on an “America First” platform, and has vowed to narrow big trade deficits with nations like China and Japan. But Trump has also shown willingness to link trade to other issues, saying he would cut a better trade deal with China if it exerts influence on North Korea. China has appeared increasingly frustrated with Pyongyang, speaking out against its weapons tests and supporting United Nations sanctions, while repeatedly calling for talks. China banned imports of North Korean coal, the country’s most important export, in February, and Chinese media have raised the possibility of restricting oil shipments to the North. However, Beijing says the crisis is one between the United States and North Korea.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said the situation was “highly sensitive, complicated and high risk” and all sides should “avoid taking provocative actions “ |

Article 7271 | Date: May 2, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump urges future government shutdown, easier passage of laws |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump came to office promising that he would produce so much winning that Americans would be sick of it. As he struggles to produce wins, some signs of frustration are starting to appear. Democrats’ gleeful declarations that they outsmarted Republicans in a battle over a spending bill that avoided a government shutdown drew the ire of the president. Democrats were happy that funding for Trump’s Mexico border wall was not included.  Trump tweeted on Tuesday that maybe a government shutdown would not be so bad and that Republicans should consider changing Senate rules to make it easier to pass spending and other bills without any Democratic support.  “Our country needs a good ‘shutdown’ in September to fix mess!” he wrote.  His comment frustrated some of his fellow Republicans in  Congress, who chafed at the suggestion that the White House could dictate Senate rules, or send a message that a shutdown, which costs the economy millions, was desirable. “I think it would be a good thing at this point if the iPhone was put in a safe, locked away and maybe returned in four years,” Republican Senator Bob Corker, who was once on the short list to be Trump’s vice president, told reporters. “That’s just not constructive. Those are the kinds of things that should never happen, and... it’s damaging to our credibility. It’s damaging to trust here within the (Capitol) building,” Corker said. Trump marked his 100th day in office on Saturday and used last week to argue that he has made major progress in rolling back federal regulations and improving the climate for job creation. But with his healthcare reform effort flagging, Trump has been unable to get a major piece of legislation through a Congress controlled by his own Republican Party, leaving him without a signature victory. With Democrats celebrating concessions they extracted in the spending bill, Trump used a Rose Garden ceremony honoring the Air Force Academy’s football team to declare he and Republicans got more from the legislation than might appear. “After years of partisan bickering and gridlock, this bill is a clear win for the American people,” Trump said. White House budget director Mick Mulvaney gave three news briefings to promote Trump gains from the bill, the first on Monday night and the second on Tuesday morning in a conference call for reporters. The conference call was marred by technical issues at times, with Mulvaney straining to be heard over orchestra music that mysteriously began playing. “All right,” Mulvaney told reporters at one point. “I’ll try to answer it one more time, and clearly we’re having a lot of background noise here.” Later, in the White House briefing room, Mulvaney said he understood Trump’s frustration, accusing Democrats of trying to “spike the football” by publicly celebrating the budget deal as a Democratic victory in an effort to make the president look bad after he negotiated in good faith. He said Democrats were thwarted by Republicans in their attempt to add bailout money for Puerto Rico. “We’ve got a lot to do between now and September. I don’t anticipate a shutdown in September, but if the Democrats aren’t going to behave any better than they have in the last couple of days, it may be inevitable,” Mulvaney said. Democrats quickly denounced Trump’s musings about closing the federal government. “Here we saw Democrats and Republicans working together in the best traditions of the Senate, and the president disparages it in a way that’s destructive,” Democratic Senate Leader Chuck Schumer said.   Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said the Senate would debate the funding bill this week and that most Republicans did not favor a change in the rules to make it easier to pass legislation without Democratic support. Trump said his fellow Republicans had to acquiesce to Democratic demands in spending bill because the party’s majority was too slim to win the 60 Senate votes needed to advance the legislation without them. Republicans hold 52 of the Senate’s 100 seats. “The reason for the plan negotiated between the Republicans and Democrats is that we need 60 votes in the Senate which are not there! We either elect more Republican Senators in 2018 or change the rules now to 51%,” Trump wrote on Twitter  Republicans last forced a government closure in 2013 for 17 days. Democrats said Trump would shoulder the blame for any shutdown now. |

Article 7282 | Date: May 2, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. government shutdown possible if Democrats don't act better: Mulvaney |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - White House budget director Mick Mulvaney accused Democrats on Tuesday of trying to make President Donald Trump look bad by claiming victory in budget negotiations and added that a government shutdown might be inevitable if they do not act better. Asked about Trump’s tweet about a possible government shutdown in September, Mulvaney said: “I think the president is frustrated with the fact that he negotiated in good faith with the Democrats and they went out to try to spike the football and make him look bad.” “We’ve got a lot to do between now and September. I don’t anticipate a shutdown in September, but if the Democrats aren’t going to behave any better than they have in the last couple of days, it may be inevitable,” he said. |

Article 7559 | Date: May 20, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: At a White House in crisis, Trump looks increasingly isolated |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - In the Trump White House, it’s getting lonely at the top. President Donald Trump’s fellow Republicans in Congress are showing signs of going their own way, both on politics and policy, determined to salvage what they can of their agenda on healthcare and tax reform in the wake of one of the most difficult weeks of any American presidency. At the same time, Trump’s failure to fill senior roles at federal agencies means he does not have a cadre of loyalists who can help rein in a bureaucracy that many in Trump’s orbit believe are out to leak information intended to damage the president. That has worsened the isolation of the White House in a city that relies on friends and allies to shake off a crisis. The result is problems on multiple fronts: a government whose bonds with Congress, federal agencies and the public look increasingly fractured; an ambitious but stalled program of reforms; and a president whose low approval ratings threaten his party’s control of Congress in the 2018 midterm elections. Trump and his beleaguered staff, some White House aides told Reuters, feel besieged by a parade of negative stories and abandoned by fellow Republicans on Capitol Hill, as the furor over the firing of FBI Director James Comey and allegations that Trump tried to influence the probe into Russian meddling in last year’s election show little sign of abating. Since Tuesday, when leaked excerpts of a purported memo by Comey detailing his conversations with Trump were made public, few Republicans beyond the White House have rushed to the airwaves to push back against suggestions that the president may have obstructed justice in asking Comey to end the probe into the conduct of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. As the Russia probe entered a new phase on Wednesday with the appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel in the investigation, a move that will likely place the White House under even stronger scrutiny, some Republicans expressed surprise that the White House had not done more to recruit them to backstop the president. “It’s kind of funny. The answer is no,” said Senator James Inhofe, a Republican from Oklahoma, when asked by Reuters whether the White House had reached out to him to come to Trump’s defense. “I don’t know anyone else that has been contacted.”     The White House did not respond to a request for comment on this story. Trump left on Friday for his first foreign trip as president. The 10-day trip will take him to Saudi Arabia, Israel, and Europe.     The administration has continued to struggle to fill the hundreds of open positions at senior levels of government that remain open, leaving the White House alone to grapple with one challenge after another. For example, the Justice Department still lacks senior officials in place to head up the anti-trust, civil rights, criminal, and civil divisions, as well as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, according to its website. At the Department of Homeland Security, the chiefs of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the Transportation Security Administration, have yet to be confirmed. And at the Department of Education, a sprawling bureaucracy of 4,400 employees with a $68 billion budget, “all the key roles except for the secretary remain empty or filled with people in an acting capacity,” said a Department of Education official. “Nobody knows when or if they will be filled anytime soon,” said the official, who declined to be identified by name. The department did not respond to a request for comment. Trump has frequently complained that Senate Democrats have stalled the approval process for his nominees. But the White House has also been slower to send nominees to the Senate than previous administrations. Many top State Department posts also remain vacant. One consequence, say several officials, is that department experts played little role in briefing Trump for his telephone call to Russian President Vladimir Putin or his meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergei Kislyak, where officials say he disclosed highly classified intelligence. State Department and intelligence officials say that as power is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few Trump loyalists in the White House, the roles of professional Foreign Service, intelligence and civil service officers have shrunk compared to past administrations. For instance, said two U.S. diplomats, no one from the State Department attended Trump’s Feb. 15 meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu - a sharp contrast from past administrations which would typically staff such a high-profile meeting with high-level State Department officials. Asked for comment, the State Department would not address the circumstances of the meeting with the Russian officials in the Oval Office, but did speak to the efforts involving Netanyahu and the Middle East.  “As the president has repeatedly noted, Middle East peace is a top priority for this administration,” a department spokesperson said. “This is an effort supported by both the White House and the State Department. Claims that the State Department has not been involved have no basis in facts.”  Overall, more than 500 of the 557 federal government positions requiring Senate confirmation remain vacant. Only 33 nominees have been confirmed, and only 57 other positions now have a nominee, according to the Partnership for Public Service, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization in Washington.     A lack of communication from the White House left many Republicans on Capitol Hill frustrated as a sense of crisis mushroomed over the past week. One, Richard Burr, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is conducting its own Russia probe, publicly complained about the situation. Tuesday morning, after news broke the previous evening that Trump had shared classified information with Russian officials, Burr said he couldn’t get through to the White House, as the story lit up television news programs and buzzed online.  “Maybe they’re busy,” he said. Some Republicans said the constant focus on responding to allegations concerning the Russia probe was draining their caucus of focus and energy to push through their agenda. Absent guidance, Republican staff members in Congress were beginning to devise their own strategy about how to respond to the gusher of bad news, one aide told Reuters.  And at the White House, with lines of communication to Congress seemingly frayed at times, a narrowing circle of people has come to the president’s defense, as senior staff grapple not only with the cascade of revelations but with a president who at times contradicts on Twitter their talking points. “Everyone is just tired,” said one White House aide. |

Article 7574 | Date: May 22, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump can't stop American progress on climate, Al Gore tells Cannes |
 | Content: CANNES, France (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump cannot stop momentum to tackle climate change, former U.S. vice-president Al Gore said on Monday as he promoted his latest film on global warming at the Cannes Film Festival. “An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power” is the follow up to “An Inconvenient Truth”, the documentary credited with bringing climate change into mainstream political discourse in the United States a decade ago.  Shot mostly before Trump’s election, it features the Republican candidate on the campaign trail promising to abolish environmental regulations and boost the coal and oil industries. At one point Trump tells a rally: “We need some global warming — it’s freezing!” But with legal and political obstacles, Gore said Trump would be unable to stop the momentum that would shift society away from fossil fuels. “We now know after four months of the Trump administration, no one person, not even a president, can stop the climate movement,” Gore told a news conference at the French film festival. “The courts have blocked parts of what President Trump has attempted and the Congress has refused to act on other parts of his agenda. The American people are determined to continue making progress and will do so,” he added. Since he took office, Trump’s administration has moved to unwind environmental rules but frustrated some conservatives by entertaining the idea of keeping the United States in a global pact to fight climate change. Gore expressed hope that Trump would opt not to quit the 2015 Paris deal on climate change signed by most countries in the world. “I do believe that there is a better-than-even chance that he will surprise many by keeping the U.S. within the Paris agreement. I don’t know that he will but I think there is a chance that he will.” “An Inconvenient Sequel” premiered at the Sundance Festival in January to mixed reviews.  Variety said it was “likely to be another event, a part of the conversation, a movie that glories, once again, in the incisive power of its inconvenience”.  But the Hollywood Reporter said the documentary’s big weakness was that Gore failed to tackle Trump strongly enough. “Quite possibly, Gore thinks talking at this point would jeopardize any influence he might have in the soon-to-be gold-plated Oval Office,” it wrote in January. “But this is one area in which the movie cannot inspire hope for the future.” |

Article 7592 | Date: May 22, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Exclusive: Trump EPA transition chief laments slow progress in killing green rules |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The man who led President Donald Trump’s transition team for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Myron Ebell, told a conservative conference last month that the new administration is moving too slowly to unravel climate change regulations. In closed-door remarks to members of the conservative Jefferson Institute in Virginia on April 18, a recording of which was obtained by Reuters, Ebell said Trump’s administration had made a series of missteps, including delays in appointing key EPA officials, that could hamper efforts to cut red tape for industry. “This is an impending disaster for the Trump administration,” Ebell, a prominent climate change doubter, said in the recording provided to the Center for Media and Democracy and shared with Reuters. Ebell was chosen by Trump’s campaign to lead the EPA’s transition until the Jan. 20 inauguration, a choice that had reinforced expectations Trump would follow through on promises to rescind Obama-era green rules and pull the United States out of a global pact to fight climate change. Ebell had been seen as a candidate for the EPA administrator job, a post that ultimately went to former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt.  Ebell no longer works at the agency but remains influential within a faction of the U.S. conservative movement with ties to the Trump administration. His criticism reflects a broader disappointment by some conservatives about Pruitt’s focus and commitment to scrapping even more complex Obama-era regulations.         Since taking office, Trump and Pruitt have moved to unwind environmental regulations, including former President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan to reduce carbon emissions from electricity generators. But his administration has frustrated some conservatives by entertaining the idea of remaining in the Paris Climate Agreement, and hesitating to tackle the Obama-era “endangerment finding” that concludes carbon dioxide is a public health threat and underlies many U.S. regulations governing emissions. Lawyers have said challenging that scientific finding could be time consuming and legally complex.  Pruitt has said he does not want the United States to remain in the Paris agreement but he has not yet decided to tackle the endangerment finding. At least three conservative groups have filed petitions asking the EPA to overturn the finding. “Paris and the endangerment finding are the two big outstanding issues. It’s the first wave of things that are necessary to turn this country around, particularly in the heartland states,” Ebell said at the conference. Ebell cited the slow pace of key EPA appointments, including deputy administrator and various assistant administrators, a lack of experienced personnel at the White House, deep ideological divisions between the president’s close advisers, and an “imperfect choice” of EPA administrator, as the main reasons Trump was not acting more aggressively on climate rules. He said Trump strategists should have allowed his transition team to roll out the full de-regulatory agenda before Trump took office, instead of delaying. “The new president doesn’t have long before inertia sets in,” he said. He also found fault in Trump’s choice of Pruitt to run the EPA, saying the former state attorney is a “clever lawyer” but his “political ambition” may distract him from taking-on time-consuming efforts like challenging the endangerment finding.       A spokesman for Pruitt responded to Ebell’s assertions, saying Pruitt had been implementing Trump’s executive orders and had spearheaded “about two dozen regulatory reform actions” since taking up his position. Ebell also faulted Trump for choosing advisers with broadly different political perspectives and backgrounds - something he said was triggering paralyzing debate, instead of action. “He’s got people on different sides and they are all fighting over who gets these jobs and nobody has the clout except the president to say, ‘Hey fix this, let’s get this done,’” Ebell said.     In a statement given to Reuters on Saturday, Ebell said he is still concerned about the White House log-jam in nominating people for key EPA posts and the delay in making the Paris decision. But he said he supports Pruitt as an administrator and is encouraged by his recent actions. “Pruitt was an excellent choice to head the EPA, and minor disagreements aside, his recent actions have made me even more confident that he will be an outstanding administrator,” he said. A White House official did not respond to a request for comment. |

Article 7687 | Date: May 26, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In shakeup, Trump to set up 'war room' to repel attacks over Russia probe |
 | Content: BRUSSELS/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Once U.S. President Donald Trump returns from his overseas trip, the White House plans to launch its most aggressive effort yet to push back against allegations involving Russia and his presidential campaign, tackling head-on a scandal that has threatened to consume his young presidency. Trump’s advisers are planning to establish a “war room” to combat mounting questions about communication between Russia and his presidential campaign before and after November’s presidential election, while bringing new aides into the White House, administration officials and persons close to Trump told Reuters. The strategic shake-up comes as Republicans in Washington increasingly have fretted that the probe, continued chaos in the West Wing and Trump’s steady slide in opinion polls will derail the president’s drive to reform healthcare, cut taxes and rebuild the nation’s infrastructure. Upon Trump’s return, the administration will add experienced political professionals, including Trump’s former campaign manager, and possibly more lawyers to handle the Russia probe, which has gained new urgency since the Justice Department appointed a special counsel to head the investigation, the sources said. Beyond pushing back at suggestions that Moscow is unduly influencing Trump’s administration, the messaging effort will also focus on advancing Trump’s stalled policy agenda and likely involve more trips out of Washington that will feature the kind of raucous rallies that were the hallmark of Trump’s campaign. A person in regular touch with the White House said it needed a different structure to focus on the “new reality” that there would be continued leaks to the media from the law enforcement and intelligence communities, leaks that have increased in frequency since Trump fired former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey on May 9. “Since the firing of Comey, that really exposed the fact that the White House in its current structure ... is not prepared for really a one-front war, let alone a two-front war,” the person said. “They need to have a structure in place that allows them to stay focused” while “also truly fighting back on these attacks and these leaks.” The White House declined to comment on plans for a “war room” but said Trump will be looking to expand on momentum it believes it has built up during the president’s trip to Saudi Arabia, Israel, and Europe. A White House official confirmed plans to hold more rallies. Trump returns to Washington on Saturday from his first trip abroad as president. “The president has had an incredibly successful trip overseas and the White House looks forward to continuing an aggressive messaging strategy to highlight his agenda when we return to D.C.,” said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders. Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to Trump, will be involved in the new strategic messaging operation, as will Steve Bannon, another top adviser who specializes in managing Trump’s populist appeal and shaping his political image, the sources said. Bannon and Trump’s chief of staff, Reince Priebus, have been laying the groundwork for the plan this week, they added. On Thursday, NBC News and the Washington Post reported that Kushner, who held several meetings with Russian officials following the election, is a focus of the probe, making him the first current White House official to be caught up in it, although Kushner, who is Trump’s son-in-law, has not been accused of any wrongdoing. Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s former campaign manager, is also expected to be part of the effort. Lewandowski, who has been seen in the White House recently, could join the administration as early as next week, a source close to him said. Lewandowski was fired by Trump in June 2016 over concerns that he was not experienced enough to oversee the general election fight against Democrat Hillary Clinton, but has remained a trusted adviser to Trump and a steadfast defender of the president on news programs. This month, the Justice Department named Robert Mueller, a former FBI director, as an independent special counsel in the probe. Trump has been frustrated of late that his communications team hasn’t done a more effective job at making the case that he isn’t implicated in the Russia probe and highlighting his administration’s successes, sources close to the president said. The White House declined to comment on the president’s frustrations. Another Republican close to the White House said the new team is taking a page out of former President Bill Clinton’s playbook. When Clinton faced impeachment in the late 1990s, he assembled a crisis-management operation that dealt with fallout from his affair with Monica Lewinsky while allowing the rest of the White House to deal with day-to-day policy matters.  “The goal of the White House is to try and contain the crisis and media coverage of the special counsel,” the Republican said. Christopher Ruddy, chief executive of Newsmax Media and a Trump friend, said he expects the president will travel more when he returns from overseas and encouraged the White House to focus on issues that pump up his base voters. “From my perspective, I think the president should be doing the stuff that he does best, which is talking about his agenda: jobs, trade and security,” Ruddy said.  Trump has scheduled a political rally for next week in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The White House said other similar events are in the planning stages. Republicans in Congress are aching for Trump to leave the distraction of the Russia probe aside and focus on legislation and nominating officials to fill the hundreds of vacant slots across the administration.  “What we really want to be able to do is tend to our business,” Mike Rounds, a Republican Senator from South Dakota, told Reuters. “We’ve got a healthcare bill we’re working on. We’ve got tax reform that we think is important.” Some of Trump’s donors, too, say they are concerned. Stanley Hubbard, a billionaire radio mogul from Minnesota, said he worries that the White House continues to be distracted by the Russia scandal, but laid some of the blame on Trump himself.  “He talks when he shouldn’t,” he said. Former U.S. House Speaker John Boehner said this week that Trump’s time in office has been a “complete disaster” aside from foreign affairs. Boehner, a fellow Republican, told an energy conference he supported efforts to “get to the bottom” of any potential interactions between Trump associates and the Russian government but described any calls to impeach Trump as the purview of “the crazy left-wing Democratic colleagues of mine.” |

Article 7764 | Date: June 1, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump budget chief under fire over attack on Congressional budget analysts |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House’s budget chief came under fire on Thursday from Democrats and others over his attack on the budget research office of the U.S. Congress, escalating tensions between Republicans and professional staffers on Capitol Hill. Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney called “absurd” a recent finding by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) that a Republican healthcare bill would cause 23 million people to lose health insurance coverage. In an interview on Wednesday with the Washington Examiner, a conservative newspaper, Mulvaney said, “At some point, you’ve got to ask yourself, has the day of the CBO come and gone?” Steny Hoyer, a Democratic House of Representatives leader, in a statement called Mulvaney’s comments “irresponsible and unacceptable” and an “indication of a bully mentality.” The CBO is one of a handful of analysis units of Congress whose employees strive for political impartiality, providing  dependable and neutral information that lawmakers can use when making often complex budget, tax and other decisions. President Donald Trump and his fellow Republicans, including Mulvaney, have been frustrated with the CBO’s findings about their proposals to roll back Obamacare, the healthcare system put in place by then-Democratic President Barack Obama formally known as the Affordable Care Act. “When Trump administration officials either disagree with or do not understand the impacts of their own policies, they prefer to attack the nonpartisan analysts who are doing their jobs with integrity and expertise,” Hoyer said in a statement. Representative John Yarmuth, also a Democrat, said that Mulvaney had impugned the integrity of a CBO analyst in charge of the healthcare assessment and urged Mulvaney to apologize. The CBO was created in 1974 during a spending dispute between the Democratic-controlled Congress and Republican President Richard Nixon after he withheld funds for government programs that did not support his political positions. A CBO spokeswoman declined to comment on Thursday. Former CBO Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a Republican who headed the office under President George W. Bush, said it was not unusual for the office to become a “political football.” “What’s unusual here is to have the sitting OMB director attack the integrity, the core of the institution,” he said. An OMB spokesperson could not be reached for comment. |

Article 7869 | Date: June 6, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Democrats aim to turn anti-Trump sentiment into votes in Virginia |
 | Content: WOODBRIDGE, Va. (Reuters) - Legislative candidate Jennifer Carroll Foy’s first bid for office puts her on the front lines of a Virginia statewide election being watched for early hints on how voters feel about President Donald Trump. Citing Trump’s victory as a tipping point that pushed her to run, the 35-year-old public defender is one of 49 Democrats vying for Republican-held seats in the state’s House of Delegates, up from 29 two years ago. The races will test whether Democrats can convert Virginians’ unfavorable opinion of the Republican president in polls into votes and start clawing back some of the almost 1,000 legislative seats lost nationwide under Democratic President Barack Obama. Foy, long frustrated by her state legislature’s attitude toward women’s rights, is seeking a suburban Washington seat in one of the 17 Republican-controlled districts that voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton last year. “Trump was just confirmation that we’re regressing and not progressing,” Foy told Reuters. “Enough is enough. If it’s not me (to run), then who? If it’s not now, then when?” Republicans hold a 66-34 advantage in the lower house of the Virginia legislature. Stephen Farnsworth, a political analyst at the University of Mary Washington in Fredericksburg, expects Democrats will make significant gains, especially by focusing on suburban districts. But a takeover of the chamber would require a collapse of Trump supporters, he told Reuters. “A Democratic majority in the House of Delegates is going to require a tidal wave,” Farnsworth said. The national mood has made Virginia Democrats hopeful. Opposition to Trump has galvanized hundreds of thousands of Americans and fueled huge turnouts at street protests since the  New York real estate developer’s January inauguration.  A poll by the Washington Post and George Mason University’s Schar School out May 22 showed 59 percent of Virginia voters disapproved of Trump’s performance, compared with 36 percent who approved. “We’ve got two things going for us in this upcoming election, and that’s going to keep energy high,” said David Toscano, Democratic leader in the Virginia House. “Voting for somebody, and also voting against somebody.” Mark Walter, president of the national Republican State Leadership Committee, said his party was watching Virginia but that it was difficult to tell how voter feelings about Trump would affect the races.  In New Jersey, the only other state holding statewide elections this fall, Democrats already control both chambers. The Virginia Republican Party is unfazed by the surge of challengers. Republicans had $6.5 million for House races by the end of March, compared with the Democrats’ $2.8 million, according to the most recent numbers from the state elections department.     “We’re doing what we’ve always done,” Chairman John Whitbeck said in an interview with Reuters. “Raise a lot of money, knock on a lot of doors and win a lot of seats.”     Toscano, the House Democratic leader, said his party’s candidates would use congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Obama’s signature domestic legacy, as a campaign issue, as well as Trump’s brief hiring freeze for most federal workers. The party also will cite Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe’s legacy of adding thousands of new jobs and billions in capital investment as a selling point, Toscano said.  McAuliffe cannot run again due to term limits, but the edge fellow Democrats have in the race to replace him is expected to give the party’s House hopefuls a boost. Democrats consider the 2nd District, home to sprawling housing subdivisions, strip malls and the Quantico Marine base, one of the party’s best bets to pick up a seat.     Clinton won the district by 21 points in November, helping her win a state that was once reliably Republican in presidential elections. Foy and fellow Democrat Josh King will compete in the June 13 primary. The winner will face Republican Laquan Austion in November for the seat being vacated by the Republican incumbent, who is not seeking re-election. All three candidates say voters are more concerned about local issues, such as traffic jams, education and pollution from power plant coal ash, than Trump. “Obviously, the Trump effect is in the air, but we’re focusing the energy into what we can do locally,” said King, 36, a deputy sheriff who narrowly lost the 2015 election for the seat. |

Article 7898 | Date: June 7, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: White House, intel chiefs want to make digital spying law permanent |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The White House and U.S. intelligence chiefs Wednesday backed making permanent a law that allows for the collection of digital communications of foreigners overseas, escalating a fight in Congress over privacy and security. The law, enshrined in Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, is due to expire on December 31 unless Congress votes to reauthorize it, but is considered vital by U.S. intelligence agencies. Privacy advocates have criticized the law though for allowing the incidental collection of data belonging to millions of Americans without a search warrant. The push to make the law permanent may lead to a contentious debate over renewal of Section 702 in Congress, where lawmakers in both parties are deeply divided over whether to adopt transparency and oversight reforms. “We cannot allow adversaries abroad to cloak themselves in the legal protections we extend to Americans,” White House Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert wrote in an editorial  published in the New York Times newspaper on Wednesday. U.S. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, speaking on behalf of other intelligence agency leaders, also told the Senate Intelligence Committee panel on Wednesday that the statute should be made permanent, saying it was necessary to keep the United States safe from national security threats.  NSA Director Rogers added that the law had been vital to preventing terrorism in allied countries as well. Fourteen Republican senators, including every Republican member of the Senate intelligence panel, introduced a bill on Tuesday that would make part of Section 702 permanent. The statute, which grants the National Security Agency a considerable freedom in the collection of foreigners’ digital communications, normally comes with a “sunset” clause, meaning that roughly every five years lawmakers need to reconsider its impact on privacy and civil liberties. Intelligence Director Coats said it was not feasible for the NSA to provide an estimate of the number of Americans whose communications are ensnared incidentally under Section 702.  Coats and other officials had previously told Congress they would attempt to share an estimate publicly before the statute expires. A frustrated Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, who has asked for such an estimate for several years, said Coats “went back on a pledge.” Privacy advocates criticized the push to make Section 702 permanent, arguing that regular reviews of the law were necessary to conduct appropriate oversight and prevent potential abuses. “After months of criticizing the government for allegedly spying on his presidential campaign, President Trump is now hypocritically endorsing a bill that would make permanent the NSA authority that is used to spy on Americans without a warrant,” said Neema Singh Guliani, legislative counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union. Disclosures by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden in 2013 revealed the sweeping nature of 702 surveillance, prompting outrage internationally and embarrassing some U.S. technology firms shown to be involved in a program known as Prism. Last week, Facebook (FB.O), Amazon (AMZN.O), Alphabet Inc’s Google (GOOGL.O) sent a letter to Congress urging lawmakers to adopt several reforms to the law, including codifying the recent termination of a type of NSA surveillance that collected Americans’ communications with someone living overseas that merely mentioned a foreign intelligence target.  Making the law permanent without changes would preclude codifying that change. Reuters reported in March that the Trump administration supported renewal of Section 702 without any changes, citing an unnamed White House official, but it was not clear at the time whether it wanted the law made permanent.  (This version of the story corrects paragraph 14 to add dropped words “embarrassing some U.S. technology firms involved in”) |

Article 8030 | Date: June 14, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Staunchly conservative U.S. lawmaker Scalise among wounded in shooting |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Steve Scalise, the Republican leader wounded in a gunman’s attack on Wednesday on people practicing for a charity baseball game, is a staunch conservative and key figure in trying to push legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives. Scalise was shot in the hip on Wednesday morning as he and other Republican lawmakers practiced for a game against their Democratic rivals in Congress. He was in critical condition after surgery at a Washington hospital. As the majority whip in the House, the 51-year-old Scalise is responsible for rounding up votes and maintaining order among the Republican Party’s fractious ranks.  He is in the job largely as a bridge to conservative groups inside the House Republican caucus, but he has struggled at times to prevent them from stymyimg the agenda of the Republican leadership.  Widely seen as well-liked among colleagues, many paid tribute to him in the hours after the attack. Scalise first went to Congress in 2008 following a decade in the Louisiana state legislature, and quickly ascended into the ranks of party leadership.  An ardent supporter of Trump inside the Republican Party, he has an A+ rating from the National Rifle Association, a powerful lobbying group that fights for gun-ownership rights.  Scalise is popular inside his deeply conservative Louisiana district, which encircles New Orleans and Lake Pontchartrain  and includes the swampy bayou region where the Mississippi River spills into the Gulf of Mexico. He won re-election in November with 75 percent of his district’s vote. Before becoming majority whip, Scalise was chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, which includes more than 170 conservative lawmakers.   In 2014, Scalise’s office confirmed he had addressed a white supremacist group connected to former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke in 2002 when he was a state representative.  Seeking to play down the controversy, Scalise’s office said he had spoken to hundreds of groups during his political career and was unaware of the views of the European-American Unity and Rights Organization. Scalise has played shortstop in the annual congressional baseball game, which began more than a century ago and pits Democrats against Republicans to raise money for charity. “Knowing Steve Scalise as we all do, he is likely really frustrated that he will not be able to play in the baseball game,” Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan said in a speech about the attack from the House floor on Wednesday. |

Article 8219 | Date: June 27, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump growing frustrated with China, weighs trade steps: officials |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump is growing increasingly frustrated with China over its inaction on North Korea and bilateral trade issues and is now considering possible trade actions against Beijing, three senior administration officials told Reuters. The officials said Trump was looking at options including tariffs on steel imports, which Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross already has said he is considering as part of a national security study of the U.S. steel industry.  Whether Trump would take any steps against China remains unclear. In April, he backed off from a threat to withdraw from NAFTA after he said Canadian and Mexican leaders telephoned him asking him to halt a planned executive order in favor of opening discussions. The officials said there was no consensus on the way forward with China and they did not say what other options were being studied. No decision was expected this week, a senior official said. Chinese steel already is subject to dozens of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy orders. As a result it has only a small share of the U.S. market. “What’s guiding this is he ran to protect American industry and American workers,” one of the U.S. officials said, referring to Trump’s 2016 election promise to take a hard line on trade with China. On North Korea, Trump “feels like he gave China a chance to make a difference” but has not seen enough results, the official said. The United States has pressed China to exert more economic and diplomatic pressure on North Korea to help rein in its nuclear and missile programs. Beijing has repeatedly said its influence on North Korea is limited and that it is doing all it can. “They did a little, not a lot,” the official said. “And if he’s not going to get what he needs on that, he needs to move ahead on his broader agenda on trade and on North Korea.” U.S. Ambassador to China Terry Branstad, who arrived in Beijing on Tuesday, spoke reporters outside his residence on Wednesday and said the United States hoped to collaborate with China. “We need to work together to deal with some of the pressing, difficult issues, such as the threat from North Korea. We want to work together to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula,” he said.  The death of American university student Otto Warmbier last week, after his release from 17 months of imprisonment in Pyongyang, has further complicated Trump’s approach to North Korea, his top national security challenge. Trump signaled his disappointment with China’s efforts in a  tweet last week: “While I greatly appreciate the efforts of President Xi & China to help with North Korea, it has not worked out. At least I know China tried!” Trump had made a grand gesture of his desire for warm ties with Chinese President Xi Jinping when he played host to Xi in April at his Mar-a-Lago retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. “I think China will be stepping up,” Trump said at the time.  Since then, however, North Korea’s tests of long-range missiles have continued unabated and there have been reports it is preparing for another underground nuclear test. Trump dropped by last Thursday as White House national security adviser H.R. McMaster and Trump senior adviser Jared Kushner were meeting Chinese State Councillor Yang Jiechi, an official said. China’s inability to make headway on North Korea was one of the topics that was discussed, according to two people familiar with the meeting. In a statement last week, China’s foreign ministry said Yang had met McMaster and Kushner, but it gave no details. Ministry spokesman Lu Kang did not directly answer a question about that meeting, but said China and the United States had discussed North Korea, among other issues, during a security dialogue Yang attended. Yang also had a separate meeting with Trump. The ministry said last week that Yang told Trump that China was willing to work with all sides, including the United States, to lessen tension on the Korean peninsula and promote an “appropriate” resolution.  Trump met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday at the White House and made a point of noting that the United States, India and Japan would be joining together in naval exercises soon in the Indian Ocean, a point that seemed aimed at India rival Beijing. Trump also thanked India for joining the United States in imposing new sanctions against North Korea. |

Article 8238 | Date: June 27, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Once on the outside, conservative Koch network warms to Trump |
 | Content: COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (Reuters) - At a glitzy weekend gathering of donors to the powerful Koch brothers’ network, much of the talk was about the conservative political group’s criticism of the healthcare bill moving through the U.S. Senate. That opposition suggests billionaires Charles and David Koch, powerful players in Republican politics, remain at odds at least on some key issues with President Donald Trump, whose campaign last year they refused to back. But beyond healthcare, the Kochs and their operatives have welcomed much of the fledgling administration’s actions, including efforts to roll back federal regulations, the decision to pull out of the Paris global climate accord, a Veterans Administration reform bill and the appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Koch officials say their network has better access to the Trump administration than they expected given past frictions, partly because former Koch operatives have been hired in key administration jobs. “Overall, we’ve made tremendous progress on the federal level that we haven’t been able to make in the last 10 years,” said James Davis, a spokesman for Freedom Partners, a Koch-backed advocacy group. Vice President Mike Pence has played a key role, meeting privately with Charles Koch on Friday, as well as Marc Short, a former member of the Koch network who is now Trump’s point man in Congress.  Charles Koch, addressing more than 400 supporters gathered at The Broadmoor luxury resort in Colorado for the event, touted the progress the organization is making, particularly since the 2016 election. “When I look at where we are — at the size and effectiveness of this network — I’m blown away,” he said. “I’m more optimistic now than ever.” The Koch brothers have been a force in American politics since the 1980s. Their influence has largely been powered by a fortune centered on Koch Industries, the second-largest privately held company in the United States with annual revenues of more than $115 billion from interests in energy, chemicals and other sectors.  Both Trump and the Koch network have incentives to build warmer ties. The Kochs could end up spending hundreds of millions to preserve the Republican majority in Congress during next year’s midterm elections. Attendees to the weekend meeting had to donate at least $100,000 to be invited. Koch-funded groups such as Freedom Partners could also help build support among conservative activists for tax reform and other Trump administration agenda items. During the 2016 campaign, the Kochs kept their distance from Trump. Charles Koch spoke out against Trump’s proposed Muslim registry, invoking a comparison to Nazi Germany. The network did not actively work to defeat Trump during the Republican primary. But when he secured the nomination, the group did not spend money backing him or criticizing Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. By contrast, the Koch network spent more than $120 million in the 2012 election to defeat President Barack Obama.     For his part, Trump lumped the Kochs in with other special-interest groups, boasting that he did not need their money and that they could not influence him. But the Koch network began showing its clout in the spring when it worked with the White House to push the House of Representatives healthcare bill in a more conservative direction.     Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a Koch advocacy group, teamed with Pence and Short, Trump’s legislative affairs director, to help get the measure through the House.     Pence is viewed as a trusted friend of the Koch network, dating to his time as a congressman.     At the meeting with Charles Koch on Friday they discussed healthcare and tax reform, Phillips and other Koch aides said.      Short is a former Pence aide and Koch alumni, having run the Koch political organization that became Freedom Partners. Stephen Ford, a speechwriter for Pence, has worked for Freedom Partners.     Koch operatives were encouraged when the White House recently cooled to the idea of a tax on imports, the so-called “border adjustment tax” advocated by House Speaker Paul Ryan.     Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Partners mounted a media and public-pressure campaign against the border tax. Phillips has met with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on the issue. Mnuchin’s chief of staff, Eli Miller, served as the Ohio director of AFP.     Mnuchin has since come out against the tax in meetings with members of Congress, Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina said at the donor retreat.     On the veterans bill, Koch group Concerned Veterans of America was able to work with one of their own. Darin Selnick, a former senior adviser to that group, is now a top aide to Trump’s Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin.     That group is working with the White House on the more than 130 federal judicial vacancies Trump must fill, partnering with conservative legal advocate Leonard Leo, who has become a trusted Trump adviser on the issue.     Leo joined Charles Koch on stage at a donor event on Saturday night. A Koch group,  Concerned Veterans of America, mounted a grassroots campaign to secure Neil Gorsuch’s confirmation to the Supreme Court.     Yet some stark policy differences remain between the Kochs and the Trump administration.     The Kochs, who are proponents of criminal justice reform, are frustrated with the Department of Justice’s effort to crack down on low-level drug offenders. They also disagree with Trump’s hardline immigration stance.     Asked about the Koch network’s successes, a White House aide did not expressly address the network’s goals, but said Trump “has already made tremendous progress toward making our country prosperous and safe again.”     In interviews with attendees at the donor summit, opinions on Trump were mixed, but even some critics found reason to praise the administration. Several mentioned Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, an advocate of charter schools and vouchers.     Other attendees were effusive in their praise of Trump’s actions so far.     “He’s walks the walk,” said Al Hartman, CEO of a property management firm in Houston. “He’s doing exactly what everyone wants done.” |

Article 8289 | Date: June 30, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump calls for firm response to North Korea, targets Seoul on trade |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump called for a determined response to North Korea after talks with South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in on Friday where he stressed the importance of their alliance but took aim at Seoul over trade and sharing the cost of defense. Trump said the United States was renegotiating what he characterized as a “rough” trade deal with South Korea agreed to five years ago by his predecessor, Barack Obama, and reiterated that an era of “strategic patience” over North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs had ended. “Together we are facing the threat of the reckless and brutal regime in North Korea,” Trump said as he stood alongside Moon in the White House Rose Garden. “The nuclear and ballistic missile programs of that regime require a determined response.” Despite the tough rhetoric, it remains unclear how Trump will find a way forward on North Korea, which is working to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the United States. U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis has warned the consequences of any military solution would be “tragic on an unbelievable scale.” Trump had pinned his hopes on persuading China, North Korea’s neighbor and main trading partner, to do more to rein in Pyongyang, although he has lately grown frustrated that Beijing has not taken stronger action.  Trump called on regional powers to implement sanctions and demand North Korea “choose a better path and do it quickly.” Moon, who warned of a “stern response” to any provocations, urged Pyongyang to return promptly to talks. “Our two leaders will employ both sanctions and dialogue in a phased and comprehensive approach,” Moon said of South Korea and the United States. Trump and Moon have said they are open to renewed dialogue with North Korea but only under circumstances that would lead to Pyongyang giving up its weapons programs. Moon told an event at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank that moves by North Korea that could create conditions for dialogue could include a freeze on its nuclear and missile tests, or the release of three Americans it is holding in the country. To be successful, talks would have to involve North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and have as their ultimate aim the complete dismantling of North Korea’s nuclear program, he added.    Trump sought to woo China since a summit with Chinese President Xi Jinping in April but the honeymoon period appears to be over. On Thursday, the United States targeted a Chinese bank and sanctioned Chinese individuals and a firm for dealing with North Korea and approved a $1.42 billion arms deal with Taiwan - decisions that angered Beijing. South Korea is a long-standing American ally but Trump has spoken harshly about U.S. trade imbalances and threatened to tear up the bilateral trade pact. “We will do more to remove barriers to reciprocal trade and market access,” Trump said, adding that the two leaders had talked about the thorny trade areas of steel and autos. Trump said he was encouraged by Moon’s assurances that he would seek a level playing field for American workers and businesses, particularly automakers. A joint statement said the two sides had agreed to work together to reduce over supply of basic materials such as steel and non-tariff barriers. It also said Trump had accepted an invitation from Moon to visit South Korea this year.  Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank, said it was unwise for Trump to air the trade issue so publicly. “Public complaints by Trump about unfair trade and inadequate defense spending provide opportunities for China and North Korea to drive a wedge between the allies,” she said. Trump also emphasized the need to ensure equitable sharing of costs for defense, returning to a theme he raised during his campaign and brought up with other allies, including NATO countries and Japan. A senior U.S. official said in a briefing before the president’s meeting with Moon that South Korea was in many respects a “model ally,” given its spending of 2.7 percent of GDP on defense and Moon’s plan to grow capabilities. “We shouldn’t view South Korea as somehow laggard on that front,” the official said on condition of anonymity. The U.S. goods trade deficit with South Korea has more than doubled since the U.S.-Korea free trade pact known as KORUS took effect in 2012. The agreement was forecast to boost U.S. exports by $10 billion a year, but in 2016 they were $3 billion lower than in 2011. At the start of Friday’s talks, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said the largest component of the deficit was automotive trade and many non-tariff barriers to U.S. auto exports to South Korea remained. “I think the way to address it is to deal product by product with what we can do to change the export side and what we can do to reduce the bad imports side,” he said. Ross said later on Friday that some progress had been made in the talks. The current pact was agreed to despite protests by supporters of Moon, who was then in opposition. But analysts have suggested that given the need to preserve a unified front in the face of a hostile North Korea, there could be compromise on both sides to resolve issues. |

Article 8301 | Date: June 30, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: China sanguine as Trump-Xi 'bromance' sours over North Korea, Taiwan |
 | Content: BEIJING (Reuters) - China reacted relatively calmly on Friday after a series of  diplomatic broadsides by the United States, expressing anger over new arms sales by Washington to Taiwan but hoping ties could soon be brought  back on track. U.S. officials have said President Donald Trump is growing increasingly frustrated with China over its inability to restrain North Korea’s arms and missile programs.  This week, the United States imposed sanctions on two Chinese citizens and a shipping company for helping North Korea’s weapons programs, announced a $1.4 billion arms sale for Taiwan, and said it would like sick Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo to be treated “elsewhere”. It has also placed China on its global list of the worst offenders in human trafficking and forced labor and senior U.S. officials have told Reuters that Washington is considering trade actions against Beijing, including tariffs on steel imports. Trump met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday at the White House and made a point of noting that the United States, India and Japan would be joining together in naval exercises soon in the Indian Ocean, a point that seemed aimed at China. It’s a long way from the “bromance” that Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping appeared to have at their first summit in April. Trump had made a grand gesture of his desire for warm ties in the meeting at his Florida residence and subsequently called Xi a “good man”. While China said it was “outraged” at the arms sales for Taiwan, and upset with the North Korea-related sanctions, it did not make specific threats of retaliation. In 2010, Beijing threatened to sanction U.S. firms that sell weapons to Taiwan after Washington announced a much bigger $6.4 billion arms package. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said he hoped the United States can correct its mistakes and get ties back on track “so as to avoid cooperation in important areas being impacted”. He did not elaborate. Jia Qingguo, dean of the School of International Studies at Peking University and who has advised the government on foreign policy, cautioned against interpreting recent events as indicating a shift in China-U.S. relations, saying it was still too early to tell. “We had a good first summit and a good beginning but the relationship in the long run is characterized by not just cooperation but also conflict,” Jia said. “Arms sales to Taiwan, the South China Sea and East China Sea, and other problems in the relationship will appear. It’s a question of how much the two countries will be able to manage these conflicts, whether they can manage them better than the previous administration.” Trump and Xi are expected to meet next week on the sidelines of a G20 summit in the Germany city of Hamburg. China has long been cautious about Trump, China-based diplomatic sources say, believing he is unpredictable and needs to be handled with care. “How does the Chinese government view Trump? We’re still discovering who he is. He often does things we can’t predict. We’re not clever enough to predict what he’ll do,” said Shen Dingli, a professor at Shanghai’s elite Fudan University. Trump upset China even before taking office, taking a call from Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen, overturning decades of precedent of no high-level official contacts between the United States and an island China considers to be a wayward province.  While China has worked hard to get Trump to understand the importance of Taiwan to the China-U.S. relationship, it has never seriously expected Washington to stop selling it weapons, provision for which is explicitly made in U.S. law. “The U.S. selling weapons to Taiwan is routine,” said Shen. “They’re selling much less than before, and that’s much better. So I don’t think there’s anything too terrible about that.” Still, the risks around Taiwan are profound.  China’s Defense Ministry, responding to the U.S. weapons sales, said Taiwan was the “most important, most sensitive core issue” between the United States and China. The arms sale came hot on the heels of a U.S. Senate committee approving a bill calling for the resumption of port visits to Taiwan by the U.S. Navy for the first time since Washington ditched Taipei and established ties with Beijing in 1979. While China’s Defense Ministry registered its opposition to the bill on Thursday, spokesman Wu Qian pointed out that as long as they respect each other’s core concerns, the Chinese and U.S. militaries can be an “engine of stability” for the two countries. Shi Yinhong, who heads the Center for American Studies at Beijing’s Renmin University and has advised the government on diplomacy, said it was important people are realistic about the challenges China and the United States face. “Perhaps people appraised too highly the Xi-Trump meeting. Although the atmosphere was very good, there were still real problems there,” Shi said, referring to the Florida summit. “Maybe you can say that China-U.S. relations have gone back to being normal,” Shi added. “Trump has no patience, and nobody can be surprised that he’s pushed certain issues to the fore.” |

Article 8309 | Date: July 2, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump discusses North Korea threat in calls with China, Japan leaders |
 | Content: BRIDGEWATER, N.J. (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump spoke to Chinese President Xi Jinping and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Sunday and discussed the threat posed by North Korea, the White House said. “Both leaders reaffirmed their commitment to a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. President Trump reiterated his determination to seek more balanced trade relations with America’s trading partners,” the White House said of Trump’s call with Xi. Trump has become increasingly frustrated with China’s inability to rein in North Korea. Trump and Abe, in their call, reiterated their commitment to increase pressure on North Korea. “They reaffirmed that the United States-Japan Alliance stands ready to defend and respond to any threat or action taken by North Korea,” the White House said in a statement. |

Article 8336 | Date: July 6, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S., China to meet in Washington on July 19 for economic talks |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senior U.S. and Chinese officials will meet to discuss bilateral economic issues this month after threats by U.S. President Donald Trump to use trade to pressure Beijing to do more to rein in North Korea’s weapons programs, a U.S. official with knowledge of the decision said.  The meeting of the U.S.-China Comprehensive Economic Dialogue will take place in Washington on July 19, and will be the first covering economic and trade issues in a new format for U.S.-China dialogue agreed after a summit between Trump and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, in April. Trump pledged repeatedly during his election campaign to take a tough stance on Chinese trade practices deemed unfair to the United States, but his rhetoric softened after a friendlier-than-expected summit with Xi. Shortly after their meeting, Trump said he had told Xi that China would get a better trade deal if it worked to rein in North Korea, whose nuclear and missile programs have become an increasing threat to the United States. Lately though, Trump, who is to meet Xi again on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Hamburg this week, has appeared increasingly frustrated that China - North Korea’s neighbor and main trading partner - has not taken stronger action. North Korea said it tested its first intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) on Tuesday and experts said it appeared to be of a type capable of hitting all of Alaska, prompting renewed U.S. calls for global diplomatic action. The United States has said it will propose new United Nations sanctions in response to the test, but it is unclear whether China and Russia will support these. Unlike Washington, neither Moscow nor Beijing have described the missile used in the test as an ICBM. Trump vowed on Thursday to confront North Korea “very strongly” after the latest missile test and urged nations to show Pyongyang that there would be consequences for its weapons programs |

Article 8399 | Date: July 11, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump calls son 'high-quality person,' applauds his transparency |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump called his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., a “high-quality person” on Tuesday after disclosures about the latter’s meeting last year with a woman he was told was a Russian government lawyer who might have information incriminating Trump’s Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. “My son is a high-quality person and I applaud his transparency,” Trump said in a brief statement read to reporters by White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders. Sanders told reporters that all other questions on the matter should be referred to either his son’s lawyer or the president’s outside counsel. Earlier on Tuesday, Donald Trump Jr. posted on Twitter a chain of emails between himself and Rob Goldstone, a publicist who helped to arrange the June 9, 2016, meeting with Natalia Veselnitskaya, who says she is a private lawyer and denies having Kremlin ties. “If it’s what you say I love it especially later in the summer,” Trump Jr. replied in the email exchange after Goldstone said the information offered was “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.” The disclosures could provide ammunition for U.S. investigators probing whether there was collusion between the Kremlin and Trump’s Republican presidential campaign. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Moscow sought to hurt Clinton and help Trump in the 2016 presidential election. Sanders said Trump was “frustrated” by the focus on Russia. “The president is, I would say, frustrated with the process of the fact that this continues to be an issue, and he would love for us to be focused on things like ... the economy, on healthcare, on tax reform, on infrastructure,” Sanders said. Asked about the fact that the words “perjury” and “treason” were now being used in the public conversation about the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russians, Sanders said, “I think those new words are ridiculous.” |

Article 8443 | Date: July 12, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Among Trump associates, concern and frustration over Donald Jr. crisis |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Fresh off one foreign trip and preparing for another, Donald Trump was enjoying a period of relative calm - until the White House was rocked by a fresh controversy over contacts between the president’s campaign and Russia. For Trump, who has been swept up all year in crises of his own making, this time the target was his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., whose meeting with a Russian lawyer last year led to accusations that the president’s son entertained working with Russians to spread negative information about Democrat Hillary Clinton.  Among Trump’s wide-ranging group of outside advisers and former campaign officials, Donald Jr.’s meeting with the lawyer on the expectation of gaining access to negative information on Clinton was seen as problematic, a demonstration of the son’s political inexperience, but not illegal. “You can’t shrug this off even though you know he’s very likely going to be okay,” said an outside Trump adviser, who asked to remain unidentified. “This is the president’s namesake and you have to circle the wagons in defense of the president’s son.” “There’s no question in my mind that every person in the White House has some level of concern about this. Otherwise it’s malpractice,” the adviser said. Inside the White House, the mood was one of heavy acceptance that another political problem had emerged but also of caution as to its significance for a wider probe into Russia’s meddling in the election and whether there was collusion with the Trump campaign. Benumbed by previous crises from the firing of then-FBI Director James Comey to the appointment of a special prosecutor, White House officials showed no signs of panic and said they were trying to advance the president’s agenda. The new incident erupted as Trump seemingly enjoyed a rare moment of calm. His trip to Warsaw and Hamburg last week went fairly smoothly, although critics accused him of not being tough enough in his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. On Wednesday, he is to depart to Paris for talks with French President Emmanuel Macron and to participate in flag-waving Bastille Day ceremonies. Trump himself was described by the White House as frustrated by yet another distraction involving the Russia investigation. “He knows that he didn’t do anything and he really wants to focus on the good things that are happening and the things he was elected to do, and he doesn’t like it when things get in the way,” a senior White House official said. The president offered a restrained reaction, not resorting to Twitter to launch a tirade against his critics, but issuing a brief statement praising his “high-quality person” who showed “transparency” by releasing the email chain with the lawyer on Tuesday.  There was a sense among former campaign advisers that Donald Trump Jr. had shown his political naivete by agreeing to the meeting. They noted that it took place at a time when Trump had a barebones staff and that his family members, initially reluctant to getting involved in his campaign, were searching to carve out space for themselves. “Besides proving that he was gullible and he got snookered, it’s still not a smoking gun,” said one former campaign adviser. Among even Republicans, there was dismay at the turn of events. Conservative author Quin Hillyer wrote in a blog post that Trump should step down for cozying up to Russia. (The blog link is here)  “The American people absolutely cannot trust Trump’s objectivity about Russian intentions and Russian actions,” Hillyer wrote. “This is an utterly untenable situation. For the good of the country, Trump must lance the boil, and resign.” The outside Trump adviser said the Trump Jr. case “unfortunately supports the narrative” advanced by Trump’s Democratic opponents and propagated by what Trump world feels is a left-leaning news media. “Donald Jr. is the nicest of nice guys, genuinely authentic,” the adviser said. “A lot of us are disappointed that if it had to be somebody, why did it have to be Don Jr.?” |

Article 8493 | Date: July 14, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. House may be near deal on stalled Russia sanctions bill |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. congressional negotiators are making progress on resolving a dispute that has stalled a bill to impose new sanctions on Russia, congressional aides said on Thursday, and one lawmaker said the matter could be resolved as soon as Friday. “I think as soon as tomorrow, the House (of Representatives) could pass it out,” Senator Bob Corker, the Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an author of the bill, told reporters. He said he expected the House to make changes that would not affect the bill’s overall character and to address issues that have worried energy companies, such as a provision that oil firms said could block them out of international exploration projects if Russian firms were also involved. Hoping to send a message to President Donald Trump to maintain a strong line against Moscow, the Senate passed the sanctions on Russia, part of a broader measure also imposing new sanctions on Iran, by 98-2 on June 15. The bill has been mired in the House ever since. The delay has frustrated Democrats, and some of Trump’s fellow Republicans, who think the president is so eager to improve relations with Russia that he will not retaliate for Moscow’s international aggression. This week, Trump has been defending his oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., who met with a Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign after he was told she might have damaging information about Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Republicans, who control Congress, said the House could not vote on the Senate bill because it violated a constitutional requirement that legislation affecting government revenues originate in the House. Democrats accused Republicans of stalling because of Trump administration concern about a provision setting up a process for Congress to approve any effort by the president to ease sanctions on Russia. Seeking a greater influence in foreign policy, Congress has included such “review” provisions in a few recent major bills, starting with Corker’s 2015 legislation forcing congressional review of President Barack Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran. Corker said he thought there should be more congressional review of foreign policy. “It’s been my goal as chairman just to bring back our equivalent status to the executive branch, and this is one way of doing so.”  House aides said negotiations on the Russia bill were continuing. “No deal has been reached, but talks have been productive and will continue,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan. |

Article 8546 | Date: July 19, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S., China fail to agree on trade issues, casting doubt on other issues |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States and China failed on Wednesday to agree on major new steps to reduce the U.S. trade deficit with China, casting doubt over President Donald Trump’s economic and security relations with Beijing.  The annual economic dialogue session in Washington ended with canceled news conferences, no joint statement and no new announcements on U.S. market access to China. The two sides had a “frank exchange” but failed to agree on most major bilateral trade and economic issues that were important to the United States, a senior U.S. official said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. These included U.S. demands for access to China’s financial services markets, reducing excess Chinese steel capacity, reductions in auto tariffs, cutting subsidies for state-owned enterprises, ending Chinese requirements for data localization and lifting ownership caps for foreign firms in China, the official said. “China acknowledged our shared objective to reduce the trade deficit which both sides will work cooperatively to achieve,”     U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a brief statement, highlighting a rare point of consensus. The Chinese embassy in Washington cast the talks in a positive light, saying in a statement that both sides had acknowledged “significant progress” on the 100-day talks and would to work together to reduce the trade deficit. “The two sides will expand areas of cooperation in services and increase trade in services; expand mutual investment, and create a more open, equitable, transparent and convenient investment environment,” the embassy said. Both sides agreed that one of the solutions to address the trade imbalance is for the United States to expand exports to China, instead of reducing imports from China, said Chinese Vice Finance Minister Zhu Guangyao after the conclusion of the talks. To address the imbalance, China has been urging the United States to remove regulations on export control and increase the exports of high-tech products to China, the official Xinhua news agency cited Zhu as saying.  China will push for this in a one-year action plan for economic cooperation which both sides discussed, Zhu said.  FAR FROM MAR-A-LAGO The session had been billed as a follow-up to Trump’s first meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at his Mar-A-Lago, Florida, estate in April when Trump hailed Xi’s cooperation in curbing the threat from North Korea. Trump said that this would lead to better trade terms for China. The two leaders launched a 100-day economic plan that has produced some industry-specific announcements, including the resumption of American beef sales in China and pledged to grant limited U.S. access to some financial services sectors. But there have been no new initiatives since, and Trump has grown increasingly frustrated with China’s lack of pressure on North Korea. His administration has threatened new sanctions on small Chinese banks and other firms doing business with Pyongyang.  Ross and Mnuchin said the U.S. position on the China trade relationship would be guided by “the principles of balance, fairness, and reciprocity on matters of trade will continue to guide the American position so we can give American workers and businesses an opportunity to compete on a level playing field.” China’s delegation leader, Vice Premier Wang Yang, left the Treasury building without speaking to reporters. Earlier, he had warned that confrontation between the two countries would be damaging. Investors interpreted the negative signals from the talks and lack of new trade announcements as making it more likely that Trump would forge ahead with broad steel tariffs or quotas based on a national security review, sending steelmakers’ shares soaring. Shares of United States Steel Corp closed up 4.8 percent, while AK Steel rose 3.6 percent and Nucor rose 2.2 percent. Trump, asked by a reporter at the White House after the stock market closed whether he would impose steel tariffs, said: “Could happen.” Potential steel tariffs, which could be announced in the coming weeks, were expected to be a difficult topic in the U.S.-China talks. Ross has blamed massive Chinese excess capacity for a global steel glut that is hurting U.S. producers. Wednesday’s deadlock was unsettling for U.S. business groups that had hoped to put more cracks in Beijing’s market access barriers and obviate more aggressive measures from the White House that could destabilize trade ties. “We are disappointed the Comprehensive Economic Dialogue ended at an apparent impasse. It is important for governments to take tangible steps to address long-standing issues and ensure the commercial relationship remains a source of stability in the overall relationship,” said Jacob Parker, vice president of China operations at the U.S.-China Business Council.  Even if the U.S. and Chinese governments fail to agree on more substantive trade terms, corporate chief executive officers from the two countries pledged to deepen their cooperation and joint investment efforts. Led by Blackstone Group CEO Stephen Schwarzman and Alibaba Group CEO Jack Ma, a group of 20 executives said they were committing to increase bilateral trade, including the export of U.S. agricultural goods, liquefied natural gas and consumer products to China. “A stable, growing economic relationship between the United States and China is mutually beneficial to the people of our two countries and for the world,” Ma and Schwarzman said in a statement. |

Article 8593 | Date: July 21, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: White House spokesman Spicer out as Trump seeks to fix image |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer resigned on Friday, ending a short and turbulent tenure that made him a household name and the butt of late-night television comedy lampoons, amid further upheaval within President Donald Trump’s inner circle. While not a surprise, Spicer’s departure was abrupt and accompanied other changes in Trump’s media and legal teams, as an investigation of possible ties between his campaign and Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election widened. After six months in power and still without a major legislative win, Trump shuffled some of his closest staff, parting ways with Spicer after naming Anthony Scaramucci as the new White House communications director. Spicer had been communications director as well as press secretary following the resignation of Mike Dubke as director early last month. A Republican close to the White House told Reuters that Trump settled on Scaramucci, 53, a political supporter and former Goldman Sachs banker, for the head media job on Thursday and met with him on Friday morning to formally offer it to him. A White House official briefed on what happened next said Spicer was told of Scaramucci’s hiring and Trump urged Spicer to stay on. But Spicer, 45, said he did not want to stay on under the terms and conditions described to him and quit. A source close to the White House said: “Basically Donald Trump likes Scaramucci on TV and saw the communications director job as a way to ... make him a top TV surrogate.” The source said Trump wanted Spicer to be press secretary and do much of the communications director’s work as well, “with Scaramucci holding the ceremonial title with no responsibility. And that was the real challenge.” At an early afternoon briefing, Scaramucci, in his debut before the White House press corps, named Sarah Sanders as the new press secretary. She had been Spicer’s deputy. Known by insiders as “Mooch,” the new communications director is a Harvard Law School-educated Long Islander who founded a hedge fund after leaving Goldman, and sold it to join the Trump administration.  Spicer, a veteran Washington staffer, was parodied memorably by actress Melissa McCarthy on the “Saturday Night Live” TV comedy show for his combative encounters with reporters. “I am grateful for Sean’s work on behalf of my administration and the American people,” Trump said in a statement. “I wish him continued success as he moves on to pursue new opportunities. Just look at his great television ratings.” Spicer will stay on the job through August. From the start, Spicer invited controversy, attacking the media in his first appearance as press secretary for reporting what he called inaccurate crowd numbers at Trump’s Jan. 20 inauguration. “This was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period, both in person and around the globe,” he said, an assertion that quickly drew scorn. In a Twitter post on Friday, Spicer wrote, “It’s been an honor & privilege to serve @POTUS @realDonaldTrump & this amazing country. I will continue my service through August.” Before Trump tapped him for the job of press secretary, Spicer was the Republican National Committee’s spokesman. He had previously worked in the administration of former President George W. Bush. During that time, he dressed up in an Easter Bunny costume for the annual White House Easter Egg Roll. Spicer and other Trump aides shook up White House dealings with the media, including cutting back daily televised news briefings and replacing them with audio briefings only. Scaramucci told reporters, “I love the president. ... It’s an honor to be here.” Asked how he was going to right the White House ship, Scaramucci said there was nothing to fix.  “The ship is going in the right direction. I like the team. Let me rephrase that: I love the team,” he said. Separately, Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating the possible Trump-Russia ties, has asked White House officials to preserve any records of a meeting last year between the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., and a Russian lawyer, a source with knowledge of the request said on Friday. The spokesman for Trump’s outside legal team, Mark Corallo, resigned. His departure came amid media reports that the role of Marc Kasowitz, who had been leading the team, was being reduced. On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions brushed off sharp criticism from Trump, saying he loved his job and planned to stay in it. Trump took a broad swipe at his administration’s top law officers this week in a New York Times interview, saying he would not have appointed Sessions as attorney general if he had known he would recuse himself. White House unrest was not limited to communications and legal staff, said two officials familiar with the situation. Trump has ignored the recommendations of national security adviser H.R. McMaster and his senior director for Russia, Fiona Hill, on dealing with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity. They said McMaster is frustrated by continuing debate about sending more U.S. forces to Afghanistan. One official said tension persists between McMaster and chief White House strategist Steve Bannon and chief speechwriter Stephen Miller. |

Article 8621 | Date: July 23, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: As U.S. weighs Afghan strategy, hopes set on fledgling Air Force |
 | Content: KABUL (Reuters) - (This version of the July 23 story corrects reference to A-29 Super Tucano in para 7. The aircraft are built in the United States under an agreement between their Brazilian manufacturer, Embraer and Sierra Nevada Corp.) As the U.S. administration prepares its new strategy for Afghanistan, the Kabul government and its Western allies are working hard to develop an air force that gives government forces the advantage in their war against Taliban militants. The level of equipment, training and assets falls far short of matching the air assets the Americans still maintain in Afghanistan, but billions of dollars are earmarked for the force which is being built up almost from scratch. “That is what will provide the asymmetric advantage to break the stalemate on the ground,” Brigadier-General Phillip Stewart, commander of TAAC-Air, the Resolute Support mission advising the air force, told Reuters. A four-year, $7 billion expansion plan is aimed at training more flight and maintenance crews and increasing the number of aircraft in the Afghan Air Force (AAF). “In 2014, remember, we (NATO and the U.S. military in Afghanistan) had the best air force in the world and the coalition pulled out and we realized we hadn’t grown the Afghan Air Force,” Stewart said. U.S. officers say the aim is to build a counter-insurgency force able to support troops fighting in remote and forbidding terrain with air strikes, supplies and intelligence. The air force is already conducting some air strikes using Brazilian-designed A-29 Super Tucano light attack aircraft and specially adapted MD-530 scout helicopters and it is building capacity in other areas. Last month, an Afghan air crew parachuted around 400 kg of supplies to an isolated border police outpost, the first time the AAF had conducted an aerial supply drop. “We can do casualty evacuations, we can take cargo, we can take ammunition, we can transport vehicles to different places where they can’t go by road,” said Major Khail Shinwari, an Afghan C-130 Hercules pilot. The AAF has about 120 aircraft in service, ranging from small propeller Cessna 208s to old Soviet-era helicopters, as well as the A-29s, MD-530s and its four veteran C-130 Hercules transporters. In coming years, the old Russian Mi-17s helicopters, which are increasingly difficult to maintain, will be replaced by American UH-60 Black Hawks. The AAF says it is flying up to 140 sorties a day, carrying supplies and providing close air support to troops fighting the Afghan Taliban and Islamic State. But whether it can be built up quickly enough to turn the tide against the stubborn Taliban insurgency is unclear. All the air power of the NATO-led coalition was not enough to defeat the militants and the AAF is nowhere near being able operate alone. U.S. drones, F-16s and Apache attack helicopters are still heavily engaged in areas like Helmand, where U.S. aircraft conducted at least 52 air strikes in the space of five days last week in support of Afghan forces. For the moment, the Afghan A-29s are still using unguided bombs rather than the guided weapons used by the Americans, and the MD-530 helicopters, which came into service in 2015, fire machine guns and rockets attached to their landing gear. “It’s close air support but not as anyone who grew up in the U.S. Air Force would understand it,” Stewart said. “It’s not precision, it’s .50 cal(ibre machine guns) and rockets but they get close to their work and they’re very good.” U.S. trainers say Afghan pilots and crews are being trained to a standard comparable with their American counterparts. But the length of time it takes to train crews - up to four years for pilots and as much as seven years for specialized mechanics - means it will be years before the air force can operate fully independently. For the moment, the emphasis is on building a force suitable for Afghanistan, which means using less complicated equipment such as the C-208s or MD-350 helicopters “at the expense of maybe getting some bigger, sexier platform,” Stewart said. The aim is to increase the effectiveness of the security forces, which advisers hope to get to a point where the Taliban are forced to negotiate a political settlement. As the AAF has grown, however, it has faced increasing pressure from army units to step up operations. Advisers say one of the main risks it faces is overstretch. “They just don’t have the airplanes and sometimes the ground forces will become frustrated because they want more,” Stewart said. |

Article 8634 | Date: July 24, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Attorney General Sessions visits White House, not Trump |
 | Content: ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE (Reuters) - U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions was at the White House on Monday but did not meet with President Donald Trump, who referred to him in a tweet as “beleaguered” earlier in the day, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said. Sanders reiterated that Trump was frustrated with Sessions for recusing himself from the Justice Department’s Russia investigation. Sessions said last week he loved his job and planned to continue serving. |

Article 8655 | Date: July 25, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Republican lawmakers rally around Sessions as Trump intensifies pressure |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Top Republican lawmakers rallied to the defense of Jeff Sessions on Tuesday as allies of the attorney general said President Donald Trump appeared to be trying to pressure him to quit by repeatedly criticizing him on Twitter and in interviews. Trump said again he was frustrated that Sessions had recused himself from the federal investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and Russia and said he would not have appointed him had he known he would do so. He stopped short of saying whether he would fire him. Two allies of Sessions told Reuters that Trump’s public attacks went beyond a president simply venting his frustration but were part of a deliberate campaign to encourage the attorney general to step down. They said Trump was likely reluctant to fire Sessions after his sacking of FBI Director James Comey backfired and led to the appointment of an independent special counsel, Robert Mueller, whose wide-ranging probe into contacts between Trump aides and Russian officials has cast a deep shadow over Trump’s presidency.   The Kremlin says it did not interfere in the election, and Trump has denied any collusion. Asked about Sessions’ future, Trump said at a news conference on Tuesday, “Time will tell. Time will tell.” The two allies of Sessions said the attorney general, who was the first Republican senator to back Trump’s presidential campaign, has been deeply offended by the public berating from his boss, but his resolve to stay is strong. It is not clear though whether that will be possible in the long term if Sessions’ relationship with the president irretrievably breaks down.  As Trump and top White House aides stepped up their attacks on Sessions on Tuesday, Republican lawmakers, stunned by the extraordinary scene of a president lambasting a member of his own cabinet, push backed strongly. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the chamber, said Sessions “is doing a fine job and made the right decision to recuse himself from the Russia matter.” Some lawmakers also expressed disquiet with Trump’s public humiliation of Sessions, who has mostly stayed silent on his boss’s criticism. “Mr. President, maybe just try a meeting? This is beneath the office - of any held office - from city councilman to POTUS,” said Republican Representative Adam Kinzinger, using the presidential acronym.  The top Democrat in the Senate, Chuck Schumer, accused Trump of trying to “bully his own attorney general out of office.” He said if Trump fired Sessions, Democrats would fight any attempt to replace him during the August congressional recess. The split between Trump and Republicans in Congress is the latest test of a strained relationship. Lawmakers have expressed frustration that the upheaval in the White House is distracting from their legislative agenda. Republicans have little to show for Trump’s first six months in office. “We’re getting nothing done,” lamented Senator John McCain on the Senate floor on Tuesday. Trump said in a tweet on Tuesday that Sessions had “taken a VERY weak position” on investigating his former opponent in the 2016 presidential election, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, over her use of a private email server. On Monday, Trump had called his attorney general “beleaguered”.  Sessions recused himself in March from the Russia  investigation after failing to disclose at his confirmation hearing that he had held meetings last year with Russia’s ambassador in Washington. In publicly attacking Sessions, Trump has torn out yet another page from the Washington rulebook - typically a president would convey his displeasure with a cabinet secretary out of the public eye. “In an administration where a lot of unexpected things have happened, this may be the most unexpected. This has risen to a level that we have never seen before,” said Douglas Heye, a former top aide to former Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor.  RIGHT-WING BACKLASH? A third Sessions’ ally said an article published by the right-wing website Breitbart on Tuesday painting Trump as “weak” for criticizing a man who is tough on immigration was significant. Breitbart’s previous chairman, Steve Bannon, is one of Trump’s closest White House advisers. “That says to Trump, ‘If you do this, if you get rid of him right now, you will have to face the wrath of the far right,” said the ally. Sessions made a name for himself for his hardline views on immigration and criminal justice. He is aligned with groups that lobby for cutting the number of legal immigrants allowed into country each year, as well as programs to ensure that employers aren’t able to hire illegal workers. As attorney general, he has vowed to crack down on the violent El Salvadorian gang Mara Salvatrucha, known as MS-13, and strip Justice Department funding from so-called sanctuary cities that do not cooperate with federal immigration authorities.  At a news conference last Thursday, Sessions said he loved his job and planned to stay in it “as long as that is appropriate.” A Justice Department official said Sessions started his day on Tuesday with his usual early morning run on the treadmill in the department’s gym. Soon afterward, he got down to work. |

Article 8657 | Date: July 25, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: House approves new Russia sanctions, defying Trump |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly on Tuesday to slap new sanctions on Russia and force President Donald Trump to obtain lawmakers’ permission before easing any sanctions on Moscow, in a rare rebuke of the Republican president. It was unclear how quickly the bill would make its way to the White House for Trump to sign into law or veto. The bill still must be passed by the Senate, which is mired in debate over efforts to overhaul the U.S. healthcare system as lawmakers try to clear the decks to leave Washington for their summer recess. The sanctions bill comes as lawmakers investigate possible meddling by Russia in the 2016 presidential election and potential collusion by Republican Trump’s campaign. Moscow has denied it worked to influence the election in Trump’s favor, and he has denied his campaign colluded. The White House said the president had not yet decided whether he would sign the measure. Rejecting the bill - which would potentially hamper his hopes of pursuing improved relations with Moscow - would carry a risk that his veto could be overridden by lawmakers. “While the president supports tough sanctions on North Korea, Iran and Russia, the White House is reviewing the House legislation and awaits a final legislative package for the president’s desk,” said spokeswoman Sarah Sanders. House members backed the bill, which also imposes sanctions on Iran and North Korea, by a near-unanimous margin of 419-3, with strong support from Trump’s fellow Republicans as well as Democrats, despite objections from Trump, who wanted more control over the ability to impose sanctions. The Republican-controlled Senate passed an earlier version of the bill with near-unanimous support. The House added the North Korea measures after becoming frustrated with the Senate’s failure to advance a bill it passed in May. Representative Ed Royce, the Republican chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the three countries “are threatening vital U.S. interests and destabilizing their neighbors. It is well past time that we forcefully respond.” But the combined bill has run into objections from some senators, who are unhappy that the House added the North Korea sanctions after holding up the measure for more than a month. Senate leaders have not said when they might consider the House bill. Senator Bob Corker, the Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he was not sure the bill would “fly through” his chamber. “The only language we agreed to was Iran and Russia. So adding North Korea on, I just don’t know how we’re going to deal with it yet,” Corker told reporters. “The better route would have been to send over what had been agreed to.” The bill had raised concerns in the European Union, where U.S. allies depend on supplies of Russian gas. But House members said the bill was tweaked to try to alleviate the worries of Europeans and the energy sector. The intense focus on Russia, involving several congressional probes and a separate investigation by a Justice Department-appointed special counsel, Robert Mueller, has overshadowed Trump’s agenda. The scrutiny has angered and frustrated the president, who calls the investigations a politically motivated witch hunt fueled by Democrats who cannot accept his upset win in last November’s election against Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, a former U.S. secretary of state. Without offering evidence, Trump lashed out on Twitter on Tuesday about “Ukrainian efforts to sabotage” his presidential campaign in order to aid Clinton. The Ukrainian embassy in Washington denied the accusations. The Senate Judiciary Committee had been set to compel Trump’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, to testify at a hearing on Wednesday, but rescinded the subpoena late on Tuesday as negotiations over his participation continued. Manafort has started turning over documents to the committee and is negotiating a date to be interviewed, the panel said in a statement. The committee is looking at a June 2016 meeting in New York with a Russian lawyer organized by Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr. Trump Jr. released emails this month that showed he welcomed the prospect of receiving damaging information at the meeting about Clinton. On Friday, the panel had asked that Manafort and Trump Jr. appear at the Wednesday hearing, but a witness list released on Tuesday evening included neither of their names.  Manafort met with Senate Intelligence Committee staff on Tuesday morning, his spokesman said. On Tuesday, Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, spent three hours with the House of Representatives intelligence panel, his second straight day on Capitol Hill answering questions about his contacts with Russians during the campaign. Kushner had a “very productive session” with the House Intelligence Committee, Democratic Representative Adam Schiff said after the meeting. Republican Representative Michael Conaway said Kushner was “straightforward and forthcoming. He wanted to answer every question that we had.” Kushner, who is now a top aide in Trump’s White House, told reporters on Monday he had no part in any Kremlin plot.. U.S. House Republicans on Tuesday rejected a legislative effort by Democrats to obtain Treasury Department documents that could show any ties between the finances of Trump, his inner circle and the Russian government. |

Article 8693 | Date: July 25, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Unrest bubbles among Trump's key foreign policy aides: sources |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Frustration is mounting among leading foreign policy officials in President Donald Trump’s administration as they chafe at some policy and bureaucratic defeats and complain they lack independence to do their jobs, officials say. The clash between internationalists urging the traditional U.S. leadership role in the world and advocates of an “America First” approach has worn down foreign policy and intelligence professionals inside the government, according to the officials. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has told friends he will be lucky to last a year in his job, according to a friend, while two officials said national security adviser H.R. McMaster was frustrated by what he sees as disorganization and indiscipline on key policy issues inside the White House. A source familiar with the situation told Reuters that Tillerson was “very upset at not having autonomy, independence and control over his own department and the ability to do the job the way the job ... is traditionally done.” The source said he had heard nothing about any possible departure, but added: “The situation doesn’t seem to be getting any better, and in some respects appears to be getting worse.” R.C. Hammond, Tillerson’s spokesman, denied Tillerson was considering leaving or that his frustrations were boiling over, saying he had “plenty of reasons to stay on the job, and all of them are important to America.” “There’s a desperate need for American leadership in the world and that’s where the secretary’s focusing his attention,” he said. Tillerson scored a policy win last week when the administration certified, albeit reluctantly, that Iran was complying with the 2015 nuclear deal under which Tehran agreed to restrain its atomic program in exchange for sanctions relief. He was upset, however, by fierce internal criticism from Trump, as well as his chief strategist, Steve Bannon, and White House aide Sebastian Gorka, over the decision, said another  U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “The secretary does not feel that White House staff members should be in a position to conduct hostile cross-(examinations) of Cabinet officials,” the official said.    Hammond disputed the account of harsh discord between Trump and Tillerson regarding recertifying the Iran nuclear deal, saying: “I don’t buy this whole thing that there are tensions. Developing public policy is about vetting out ideas,” he said. Following last month’s move by Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt to boycott Qatar, which they accuse of financing extremist groups and supporting terrorism, Tillerson publicly asked the nations to ease their blockade, and put the onus on both sides to end the crisis. Less than 90 minutes later, Trump accused Qatar of being a “high level” sponsor of terrorism and suggested he had helped plan the Qatar action with Arab leaders. “As a government we offered some confusing signals, but we’ve since been able to clear up and clarify that,” Hammond said. Politico reported last month that Tillerson was furious with Johnny DeStefano, the head of the presidential personnel office, for torpedoing proposed nominees to key State Department posts. Senior national security officials said McMaster was dismayed that his recommendations, backed by his senior director for Russia, Fiona Hill, about taking a tough stance with Russian President Vladimir Putin, had been ignored. Trump has questioned the U.S. intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election to try to help him defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton. McMaster, a three-star Army general who once praised Trump as a “disruptive” figure, is also troubled by a protracted debate about sending more U.S. forces to help Afghanistan reverse gains by the Taliban, officials familiar with the matter told Reuters. Asked to respond to the characterizations of the views of McMaster and other officials, a White House official said: “Assertions not of fact but of state of mind in internal thought have no place in a story like this.”     While circumspect, Tillerson talked about the challenges of his new job earlier this month, telling reporters that it differed from his former role as chief executive of Exxon Mobil Corp, where “I was the ultimate decision-maker. That always makes life easier.” “I knew what to expect and we had very long-standing disciplined processes and decision-making,” he said. “Those are not the characteristics of the United States government.” |

Article 8697 | Date: July 26, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Attorney General Sessions to unveil leak probes soon: reports |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions plans to announce soon several criminal investigations into intelligence leaks, news outlets reported on Wednesday, as the country’s top law enforcement official faced mounting criticism from President Donald Trump. The announcement has “been in the works for some time and will most likely happen sometime in the next week,” Fox News reported, citing an unnamed U.S. official. The Washington Post also reported the planned announcement, citing multiple unnamed officials. The investigations will look at news stories that publicized sensitive intelligence material, according to the reports. Officials at the U.S. Justice Department did not respond to a request for comment. On Tuesday, Trump tweeted that Sessions has not aggressively pursued people who leaked intelligence secrets during his time in office, one of a series of criticisms apparently aimed at pushing the former Republican Alabama senator to step down. Trump also said again that he was frustrated that Sessions had recused himself from a federal investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and Russia, but stopped short of saying whether he would fire him. Top Republican lawmakers have rallied to Sessions’ defense as allies of the attorney general said Trump appeared to be trying to pressure him to quit by repeatedly criticizing him on Twitter and in interviews. The latest apparent leak involved Sessions himself. On Friday, the Washington Post reported that Russia’s ambassador to Washington was overheard via surveillance by U.S. spy agencies telling his bosses that he had discussed campaign-related matters, including issues important to Moscow, with Sessions during the 2016 presidential race. The newspaper cited current and former U.S. officials familiar with U.S. intelligence intercepts. Earlier this month, a report written by Republican members of the Senate’s homeland security panel said the Trump administration faced an “alarming” amount of media leaks that posed potential danger to national security and urged law enforcement officials to step up their investigations.  Separately, Trump’s new communications director, Anthony Scaramucci, told Fox News on Wednesday he expected Trump would soon announce a plan to stem leaks, adding that there seemed to be some “political holdovers from the Obama administration that are not helping.” Scaramucci said he recognized it was “impossible” to eliminate leaks in Washington but added: “We’re going to try and hit a cultural reset on these leaks not only here in the White House, but I’m going to be working with the agencies and the departments to do that.” “Now one of the big problems here that I’m discovering in the (communications) team is that senior people are really the guys doing the leaking and they ask junior people to leak for them,” Scaramucci told Fox News in a separate interview later on Wednesday. On Tuesday, he told reporters on Air Force One after Trump’s trip to Ohio that he would probably restructure the communications operation at the White House and fire staff if leaks did not cease: “If the leaks continue, then I’ve got to let everybody go.”  Scaramucci said there were no immediate plans to fire anyone else following the resignation of senior assistant press secretary Michael Short earlier on Tuesday. Leaks of classified intelligence that endanger national security have customarily prompted investigations, including by the administration of President Barack Obama, Trump’s predecessor. |

Article 8698 | Date: July 26, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump criticism prompts questions over Attorney General's future |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump further stoked speculation about the fate of his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, on Wednesday by assailing him in a fresh round of tweets even as Sessions was attending meetings at the White House. On Tuesday, Trump took to Twitter to call Sessions “very weak,” prompting questions about whether Sessions, one of Trump’s earliest and most vocal supporters during his 2016 presidential campaign, would be forced out. On Wednesday, Sessions entered and left the White House  without speaking to the president and with his status unchanged, while conservative lawmakers in Congress rallied around Sessions, a former senator. A source close to Sessions said he has a “spine of steel” and plans on remaining in office until he is fired or asked to resign. Trump has kept Sessions at a distance, the source said. The two rarely speak and Sessions has been kept out of meetings.  Trump has said he is frustrated that Sessions recused himself from a federal investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s election campaign and Russia and said he would not have appointed him had he known he would do so. At a White House press briefing, spokeswoman Sarah Sanders did not address Sessions’ job security, but said that Trump and Sessions had not spoken this week. “You can be disappointed in someone but still want them to continue to do their job,” Sanders said. “The president wants the attorney general to focus on his duties as attorney general.” In a pair of morning tweets, Trump said Sessions should have named a replacement for Andrew McCabe, the acting director of the FBI. Trump has accused McCabe of having ties to his former presidential rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton. The FBI has defended McCabe, saying he did not have conflicts of interests. Trump has since nominated Christopher Wray to be the FBI director. Wray is waiting to be confirmed by the U.S. Senate.  At a news conference on Tuesday, Trump said he was “very disappointed” with Sessions. Asked whether Sessions would remain in the cabinet, Trump said, “Time will tell.”     But Republicans on Capitol Hill and conservative groups have stood by the attorney general.  Senator Lindsey Graham said Trump was acting weak by not following through and firing Sessions. “I would fire somebody I did not believe could serve me well rather than trying to humiliate them in public - which is a sign of weakness,” Graham tweeted on Wednesday.  Earlier, Graham had praised Sessions as a “rock-solid conservative” who “believes in the rule of law.” Sessions “is working to keep our streets safe, secure our borders, and enforce our immigration laws, and protect our nation,” Senator Tom Cotton said in a statement. Sessions’ hardline stance on immigration endears him to conservatives. On Tuesday, the Justice Department said it would now withhold grant money from so-called “sanctuary cities” - communities that do not cooperate with federal immigration authorities.  That move earned Sessions praise from NumbersUSA, a group that advocates limits on immigration. |

Article 8778 | Date: July 28, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Struggling to govern, Trump faces growing Republican unease |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - As fellow Republicans labored to repeal Obamacare this week, U.S. President Donald Trump repeatedly swerved off-topic, escalating concerns in his party about his ability to govern the country six months after taking office. While senators grappled with healthcare, Trump banned transgender people from the military. He regaled a Boy Scout jamboree with a tale from a New York cocktail party. He indulged an obscene tirade by his flamboyant new communications director. In the end, the Senate’s efforts collapsed in a predawn vote on Friday, magnifying the ineffectiveness that often goes with the chaos around Trump, the constant storm of tweets, the White House infighting, the self-inflicted wounds. “We’re seeing clear evidence that all of these distractions are standing in the way of their ability to achieve legislative accomplishments,” said Republican strategist Alice Stewart, a top aide to Senator Ted Cruz’s presidential campaign last year. In the latest twist, Trump late on Friday named U.S. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly as his new White House chief of staff, replacing Reince Priebus, who has been in a feud with Trump’s new communications director Anthony Scaramucci. Among some establishment Republicans, there were signs that patience with Trump was wearing thin. His national security team, seen as a bedrock of normality, increasingly is frustrated. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson were described by sources as unhappy with their handling by the White House. Defense Secretary James Mattis was coming to grips with Trump’s abrupt decision on Wednesday, via a tweet, to ban transgender individuals from military service. The Pentagon  said it would not execute the order without more guidance. Republican strategist Charlie Black said Trump needs to let an investigation of possible ties between Russia and his 2016 campaign run its course and not keep talking about it. Russia denies meddling, and Trump denies any collusion. The Russia probe has fed public spats with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, quarreling among aides and attacks on Robert Mueller, the special counsel running the investigation. “He should be talking about policy and sticking to issues for a while,” Black said. “There are still some good things that could get done in Congress like tax reform. He can help further those things if that’s what he talks about.” In the Senate healthcare fight, Trump phoned Republican senators and urged them to support repeal of Obamacare, but the effort fizzled, a sign there was little political retribution to fear from a president with a sub-40 percent approval rating. A moderate House Republican said Trump let down the Obamacare rollback effort by not going out and selling a plan. For Trump, a businessman and former reality TV show host, the presidency is his first elected office. “This issue was outsourced to Congress. It was never really sold. I think that was part of the reason why it was a failure,” said Republican Representative Charlie Dent. As the Senate fight was coming to a head, Washington was suddenly mesmerized by a profanity-laced rant from Scaramucci, who tore into Priebus and Trump strategist Steve Bannon in an interview in The New Yorker magazine. Stunned aides stopped what they were doing to read the article online. The rant has so far gone unpunished. Inside the White House, there was a sense of genuine concern and bewilderment about what Scaramucci’s future might portend. Former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said the tensions did not seem to trouble Trump. “The president’s management style seems to be to encourage factionalism among people below him. He seems to place value on watching people fight,” Fleischer said. Aside from sacking Priebus, it was unclear how Trump planned to proceed to regain his footing. With healthcare stalled, Trump has his sights set on tax reform with no consensus on how to proceed. Top aides are split on how deeply to cut taxes. It is the same moderates-versus-conservatives split that doomed the Obamacare rollback. |

Article 8802 | Date: July 28, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Ryan disappointed on Senate healthcare vote, but 'we should not give up' |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan said on Friday he was disappointed with the Senate’s failure to pass healthcare legislation but urged Republican senators not to give up as their colleagues in the House moved on to tax reform. “I am disappointed and frustrated, but we should not give up. I encourage the Senate to continue working toward a real solution that keeps our promise,” Ryan, the top Republican in Congress, said in a statement. He said the House would move on to tax reform including cutting taxes for middle class families. |

Article 8819 | Date: July 31, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump fires communications director Scaramucci in new White House upheaval |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump ousted recently hired White House communications chief Anthony Scaramucci on Monday over an obscene tirade, sources familiar with the decision said, in the latest staff upheaval for the six-month-old administration.  The move, coming just 10 days after the Republican president named Scaramucci to the post, took place on the first day of work for Trump’s new chief of staff, retired Marine Corps General John Kelly, who sources said was seeking to impose order on a White House riven with factions and backbiting. “There’s a new sheriff in town,” said Barry Bennett, a former Trump campaign adviser. A Republican close to Trump said the president fretted on the weekend over what to do about Scaramucci, calling his advisers to ask their opinion, all of whom told him the tough-talking aide had to go. Trump was annoyed about Scaramucci’s lewd comments to The New Yorker magazine published last Thursday and at how the abrasive New York financier appeared to inflate the strength of their friendship, since he had started the 2016 presidential election cycle as a fundraiser for two Trump rivals, Scott Walker and Jeb Bush. Trump decided it was time to cut him loose, the source said. Kelly, who also wanted him removed, summoned Scaramucci to Kelly’s office on Monday morning and fired him on the spot, the official said. It was one of Kelly’s first acts as chief of staff. “A great day at the White House!” Trump tweeted on Monday evening. The departure of Scaramucci followed one of the rockiest weeks of Trump’s presidency in which a major Republican effort to overhaul the U.S. healthcare system failed in Congress and both his spokesman and previous chief of staff left their jobs as White House infighting burst into the open.    Scaramucci’s comments to The New Yorker included a profanity-laced attack against then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus and Trump’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon. “The president certainly felt that Anthony’s comments were inappropriate for a person in that position,” spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters. In a change from previous procedure at the Trump White House, all staff will now report to Kelly, including Trump’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner, Sanders said. A Republican official close to the White House said Kelly had been given wide authority to impose order on the unruly Trump White House. “Things will run with regular order,” the official said, adding that even the president’s daughter and her husband, who both have senior roles at the White House, are “not above the law.” At a dinner on Saturday night at Trump’s hotel near the White House, Trump told Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to expect some staff changes, the official said. Kelly attended the dinner as well. Tensions in Trump’s inner circle erupted last week when Scaramucci assailed Priebus and Bannon, two of the West Wing’s most senior figures. He accused Priebus of leaking information to the media. Priebus later resigned.         Trump appeared on Monday with Kelly in the Oval Office and in a Cabinet meeting where he predicted the new chief of staff would do a “spectacular job.” He praised Kelly for his tenure overseeing border security issues at the Department of Homeland Security. “With a very controversial situation, there’s been very little controversy, which is really amazing by itself,” Trump said.    Republicans fear that staff chaos at the White House could derail any attempt to revive efforts to repeal and replace the Obamacare healthcare law and a plan to overhaul the U.S. tax system. The U.S. dollar hit a more than 2-1/2-year low against the euro on Monday on month-end portfolio adjustments and uncertainty over the U.S. political outlook after Scaramucci’s departure.         Aside from domestic challenges, Trump is weighing how to respond to North Korea’s latest missile test - a sore point between Washington and Beijing. Trump has been critical of China, North Korea’s closest ally, saying it should do more to rein in Pyongyang. He is also dealing with several investigations into allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, and has been frustrated that the probes are also looking into potential collusion by his campaign. Moscow rejects the charge it tried to swing the election in Trump’s favor, and Trump denies his campaign had anything to do with such interference. |

Article 8823 | Date: July 31, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump aims at insurers in battle over healthcare subsidies |
 | Content: WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump took aim at insurers on Monday in an escalating threat to cut the healthcare subsidy payments that make Obamacare plans affordable, after repeatedly urging Republican senators to keep working to undo his Democratic predecessor’s healthcare law. “If ObamaCare is hurting people, & it is, why shouldn’t it hurt the insurance companies & why should Congress not be paying what public pays?” Trump, a Republican, wrote on Twitter. Trump, frustrated that he and Republicans have not been able to keep campaign promises to repeal and replace Obamacare, has threatened to let it implode. So far, the administration has continued to make the monthly subsidy payments, but withholding them would be one way to make good on Trump’s threat. Republican Senator Rand Paul told reporters on Monday he spoke to Trump by phone and the president was considering taking executive action to address problems with the healthcare system. Paul said he told Trump he thought he had the authority to create associations that would allow organizations - such as the AARP that represents retirees, or the U.S. Chamber of Commerce - to offer group health insurance plans. The White House declined to comment on matter. On Capitol Hill, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch said senators were too divided to keep working on healthcare overhaul legislation, and that he and other senior Republicans would take that message to the White House. “There’s just too much animosity and we’re too divided on healthcare,” Hatch said in an interview. He said lawmakers could return to a healthcare overhaul later but for now should pivot to tax reform. Some senators were not ready to drop healthcare, however. Senator Bill Cassidy, Republican of Louisiana, met with Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and several Republican state governors at the White House on Monday to discuss a proposal Cassidy and others have made to send federal healthcare funds to the states in grants, Cassidy told reporters. But Cassidy said he had not discussed bringing his proposal to the Senate floor with Senate leaders. And the third-ranking Republican senator, John Thune, told reporters Monday evening that until there is a proposal that can win a majority of senators’ support, “I think we’ve had our vote and we’re moving onto tax reform.” Hatch, in the interview with Reuters, also said he thought Congress would have to approve new funds for the government’s cost-sharing reduction subsidies to insurers that Trump had been threatening to end. These subsidies lower the price of health coverage for the poor under the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare.  Insurers have asked the government to commit to making the $8 billion in payments for 2018, saying they may raise rates or leave the individual insurance marketplace if there is too much uncertainty. |

Article 8845 | Date: August 1, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Court allows Democratic states to defend Obamacare payments |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court on Tuesday allowed Democratic state attorneys general to defend subsidy payments to insurance companies under the Obamacare healthcare law, a critical part of funding for the statute that President Donald Trump has threatened to cut off. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit granted a motion filed by the 16 attorneys general, led by California’s Xavier Becerra and New York’s Eric Schneiderman. President Donald Trump, frustrated that he and fellow Republicans in Congress have been unable to keep campaign promises to repeal and replace Obamacare, has threatened to stop making the so-called cost-sharing subsidy, or CSR, payments. “The President is working with his staff and his cabinet to consider the issues raised by the CSR payments,” a White House statement said. The subsidies help cover out-of-pocket medical expenses for low-income Americans. The case, which dates back to administration of President Barack Obama, was filed by the Republican-led House of Representatives against the federal government in an effort to block the subsidy payments to insurers for the individual plans created by the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare. The court’s order allows Democrats who back the law to have a say in the legal fight, giving them the power to block a settlement or appeal a ruling blocking the payments. They can also file briefs and their lawyers can participate in oral arguments. “The court’s decision is good news for the hundreds of thousands of New York families that rely on these subsidies for their health care. It’s disturbingly clear that President Trump and his administration are willing to treat them as political pawns,” Schneiderman said in a statement. “If Donald Trump won’t defend these vital subsidies for American families, then we will,” Becerra said. The order issued by the three-judge panel, all Obama appointees, said the states had shown “a substantial risk that an injunction requiring termination of the payments at issue here ... would lead directly and imminently to an increase in insurance prices, which in turn will increase the number of uninsured individuals for whom the states will have to provide health care.” “In addition, state-funded hospitals will suffer financially when they are unable to recoup costs from uninsured, indigent patients for whom federal law requires them to provide medical care,” the court order said. Nicholas Bagley, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School, said the decision was a “big deal” because it makes it difficult for the Trump administration to settle the case. “Allowing the states to intervene will increase the pressure on the administration to keep making the cost-sharing payments,” he said, noting that the administration could still stop making the payments. Trump has repeatedly threatened to withhold the payments to insurers, which amount to about $7 billion this year, and referred to them as a “bailout.” The attorneys general cited in their May court filing Trump’s own words vowing to let Obamacare “explode” as part of the reasoning for their intervention.    The case is currently on hold at the request of both sides. The expectation had been that the case would be dismissed because the Republican-controlled Congress was poised to repeal the Obamacare law. But that effort failed last week, meaning the court case has taken on renewed importance. U.S. health insurer Anthem Inc is pulling back from 16 of 19 pricing regions in California where it offered Obamacare options this year in part due to uncertainty over the payments, state officials said on Tuesday. |

Article 8847 | Date: August 1, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Republican makes first move to work with Democrats on healthcare |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Senator Lamar Alexander on Tuesday made the first move by a senior Republican to work with Democrats on repairing Obamacare after his party failed to repeal and replace the healthcare law, announcing work on bipartisan legislation to stabilize the individual health insurance market. Alexander, who chairs the Senate health committee, urged U.S. President Donald Trump to drop his threat to cut government subsidy payments to insurers that make Obamacare plans affordable and to allow the payments through September. The senator also said fellow lawmakers should fund those payments for one year. Alexander’s announcement followed the spectacular failure last week by Senate Republicans to pass their own repeal or replacement of the Affordable Care Act, former President Barack Obama’s signature domestic initiative also referred to as Obamacare. The Tennessee Republican said the Senate health committee “will hold hearings beginning the week of September 4 on the actions Congress should take to stabilize and strengthen the individual health insurance market so that Americans will be able to buy insurance at affordable prices in the year 2018.” The goal, Alexander said, would be legislation sponsored by both parties that would stabilize the insurance market and help lower premiums in 2018 for the roughly 18 million Americans who buy health insurance in the individual market, instead of getting insurance through an employer. Trump, frustrated that he and Republicans have not been able to keep promises to repeal and replace Obamacare, has threatened to let the law implode, including by cutting off about $8 billion in subsidies that are used to make Obamacare health plans more affordable for low income Americans. Insurers, who are finalizing their insurance premium rates for 2018, have asked Congress to guarantee that those funds will stay in place for the rest of this year and 2018. Without the subsidies, they say they will need to raise premium rates by about 20 percent. Without an answer, insurers have filed preliminary rates based on different parameters: Some set rates that assumed the subsidies would be paid, others set rates that assumed they would not, and some submitted two different set of rates reflecting both outcomes. Senator Patty Murray, the top Democrat on the health panel, welcomed Alexander’s statement and said she looked forward to working in a bipartisan manner to stabilize the healthcare market and reduce premiums. In the House, a bipartisan group of 43 lawmakers on Monday called for Congress to quickly stabilize the individual insurance market by appropriating money for the cost-sharing payments and creating a stability fund for states. |

Article 8872 | Date: August 2, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In rare bipartisan display, Democrats back Trump on China trade probe |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Three top Democratic senators, in a rare show of bipartisanship, on Wednesday urged U.S. President Donald Trump to stand up to China as he prepares to launch an inquiry into Beijing’s intellectual property and trade practices in coming days. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer pressed the Republican president to skip the investigation and go straight to trade action against China.  “We should certainly go after them,” said Schumer in a statement. Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Sherrod Brown of Ohio also urged Trump to rein in China. Tensions between Washington and Beijing have escalated in recent months as Trump has pressed China to cut steel production to ease global oversupply and rein in North Korea’s missile program. Sources familiar with the current discussions said Trump was expected to issue a presidential memorandum in coming days, citing Chinese theft of intellectual property as a problem. The European Union, Japan, Germany and Canada have all expressed concern over China’s behavior on intellectual property theft.  U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer would then initiate an investigation under the Trade Act of 1974’s Section 301, which allows the president to unilaterally impose tariffs or other trade restrictions to protect U.S. industries, the sources said.     It is unclear whether such a probe would result in trade sanctions against China, which Beijing would almost certainly challenge before the World Trade Organization (WTO). The Chinese Embassy in Washington said in a statement to Reuters that China “opposes unilateral actions and trade protectionism in any form.” A spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce told reporters in Beijing on Thursday that China puts a strong emphasis on intellectual property rights and that all WTO members should respect the rules of the organization.  “We hope the positive momentum of cooperation can continue” following recent bilateral trade talks, said commerce ministry spokesman Gao Feng.   U.S. Section 301 investigations have not led to trade sanctions since the WTO was launched in 1995. In the 1980s, Section 301 tariffs were levied against Japanese motorcycles, steel and other products. “This could merely be leverage for bilateral negotiations,” James Bacchus, a former WTO chief judge and USTR official, said of a China intellectual property probe. Some trade lawyers said that WTO does not have jurisdiction over investment rules such as China’s requirements that foreign companies transfer technology to their joint venture partners, allowing sanctions to proceed outside the WTO’s dispute settlement system. But Bacchus argued the United States has an obligation to turn first to the Geneva-based institution to resolve trade disputes, adding: “There is an obligation in WTO to enforce intellectual property rights that is not fully explored.” Lighthizer and Trump’s Commerce Secretary, Wilbur Ross, have  complained the WTO is slow to resolve disputes and biased against the United States. The threat comes at a time when Trump has become increasingly frustrated with the level of support from Beijing to pressure Pyongyang to give up its nuclear and missile program. Trump has said in the past that China would get better treatment on trade with the United States if it acted more forcefully against Pyongyang. Beijing has said its influence on North Korea is limited. China counters that trade between the two nations benefits both sides, and that Beijing is willing to improve trade ties. A senior Chinese official said on Monday there was no link between North Korea’s nuclear program and China-U.S. trade. Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, wrote to Lighthizer urging action to stop China from pressuring U.S. tech companies into giving up intellectual property rights.  Wyden’s state of Oregon is home to several companies that could make a case regarding intellectual property rights and China, including Nike Inc and FLIR Systems Inc. |

Article 8878 | Date: August 2, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. governors urge Trump to make insurance payments |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Democratic and Republican U.S. governors on Wednesday urged the Trump administration, as well as Congress, to continue funding payments to health insurance companies that make Obamacare plans affordable, calling it critical to stabilizing the insurance marketplace.   Republican President Donald Trump, frustrated that Obamacare survived attempts to repeal it, has threatened to cut off about $8 billion in subsidies that help control costs for low-income Americans under the Affordable Care Act, Democratic former President Barack Obama’s signature domestic initiative. “The Administration has the opportunity to stabilize the health insurance market across our nation and ensure that our residents can continue to access affordable health care coverage,” said a statement by the Health and Human Services Committee of the National Governors Association. “A first critical step ... is to fully fund CSRs (cost-sharing reduction payments) for the remainder of calendar year 2017 through 2018,” the statement said, adding this was needed as Congress and the administration address long-term reform efforts. The committee is led by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe, a Democrat, and Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker, a Republican. Earlier this year, the governors sent a letter calling on Congress to fully fund the cost-sharing payments. Some Congressional Republicans have joined Democrats in urging Trump to continue the payments. Republican Senator Lamar Alexander, chairman of the health committee, said Tuesday the president should pay the subsidies through September while lawmakers work on bipartisan legislation to fund the outlays for another year. But the Senate’s No. 2 Republican John Cornyn hesitated when asked Wednesday if he would support such legislation. “I’ve said before that I’m not in favor of throwing money at insurance companies without reform, so that’s going to be the nature of the conversation,” Cornyn told reporters outside his office. Asked what reforms he’d like to see, Cornyn mentioned the “skinny” Obamacare repeal bill the Senate voted down last week. Among other things, it would have repealed the requirement that every American have health insurance or pay a penalty. Insurers say that the cost-sharing payments are passed onto customers in the form of lower deductibles and co-pays that make care more affordable for low income Americans. Insurers are finalizing 2018 premium rates for the individual Obamacare market, with many saying their decision hinges on government guarantees for cost-sharing subsidies. Molina Healthcare Inc said on Wednesday it would stop selling Obamacare plans in Utah and Wisconsin, joining a slew of health insurers that have exited Obamacare markets amid uncertainty over the healthcare law. Anthem Inc, one of the largest sellers of these plans in 2017, has pared back offerings or mostly exited five states including California and may exit more.  White House budget director Mick Mulvaney told CNN the administration was still considering whether to end cost-sharing subsidies. |

Article 8894 | Date: August 3, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. may soon expand U.N. talks on North Korea sanctions, signaling China deal: diplomats |
 | Content: UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United States could shortly broaden talks on a push for stronger U.N. sanctions on North Korea to include all 15 Security Council members, signaling a likely deal with China on new measures, diplomats said on Thursday. Since North Korea’s July 4 launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), the United States has been negotiating with Pyongyang ally China on a draft resolution to impose new sanctions on North Korea, which fired a second ICBM last Friday, in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions. “We have been working very hard for some time and we certainly hope that this is going to be a consensus resolution,” China’s U.N. Ambassador Liu Jieyi told Reuters on Thursday. Some diplomats said the United States could give the draft resolution to all 15 council members as early as Thursday. Typically, the United States and China have agreed sanctions on North Korea before formally involving other council members. A resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the United States, China, Russia, France or Britain to be adopted. The United States has been informally keeping Britain and France in the loop on the negotiations, while U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said China had been sharing the draft and negotiating with Russia. U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has been frustrated that China has not done more to rein in North Korea and Washington has threatened to impose new sanctions on Chinese firms doing business with Pyongyang. But Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told his British counterpart, Boris Johnson, on Friday that China would continue to fully and strictly implement Security Council resolutions on North Korea, the ministry said.  Haley said on Sunday the United States was “done talking about North Korea” and China must decide if it is willing to back imposing stronger U.N. sanctions. But she has also acknowledged that Russia’s engagement on the draft resolution would be the “true test.” Russia noted on Thursday that the permanent five (P5) veto powers had yet to formally discuss the draft. It was not immediately clear if poor relations between Russia and the United States, which imposed new unilateral sanctions on Russia on Wednesday, would hamper the negotiations. “Even if there is an agreement between the U.S. and China, it doesn’t mean there is an agreement between the P5 members,” said Russia’s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia, who met with Liu earlier on Thursday and discussed a possible resolution. “Maybe there is a bilateral agreement (between Beijing and Washington), but that’s not a universal one,” he said, adding that while he was aware of what might be in the resolution he had not seen “the draft as it stands now.”  The U.S. mission to the United Nations declined to comment. Moscow has disagreed with assessments by Western powers that Pyongyang has launched two long-range missiles, saying they were mid-range. Diplomats say China and Russia only view a test of a long-range missile or a nuclear weapon as a trigger for further possible U.N. sanctions. North Korea has been under U.N. sanctions since 2006 over its ballistic missile and nuclear programs and the Security Council has ratcheted up the measures in response to five nuclear weapons tests and two long-range missile launches. |

Article 8921 | Date: August 4, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.N. vote Saturday on U.S. bid to slash North Korea exports over missile tests |
 | Content: UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - The United Nations Security Council is set to vote on Saturday on a U.S.-drafted resolution that aims to slash by a third North Korea’s $3 billion annual export revenue over Pyongyang’s two intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) tests in July.  A council diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was a “high confidence” that North Korea ally China and Russia would support the draft resolution, which was circulated to the 15 Security Council members on Friday. The council is due to vote at 3 p.m. EDT (1900 GMT). A resolution needs nine votes in favor, and no vetoes by the United States, China, Russia, France or Britain, to be adopted.  The draft resolution would ban North Korea’s exports of coal, iron, iron ore, lead, lead ore and seafood. It would also prohibit countries from increasing the current numbers of North Korean laborers working abroad, ban new joint ventures with North Korea and any new investment in current joint ventures. “These are export sectors where this money is viewed as a critical, critical source of hard currency that the North immediately turns around into its fantastically expensive war machine and these just amazingly expensive ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs,” the diplomat said. “These sanctions are not targeted at the people of North Korea,” the diplomat said.  The draft resolution would also add nine individuals and four entities to the U.N. blacklist, including North Korea’s primary foreign exchange bank, subjecting them to a global asset freeze and travel ban. The United States and China have been negotiating the draft text for the past month. Typically, they agree sanctions on North Korea before formally involving other council members. U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has been frustrated that China has not done more to rein in North Korea and Washington has threatened to impose new sanctions on Chinese firms doing business with Pyongyang. “The Trump administration should issue new sanctions against China at the same time the new resolution is adopted as Beijing is still violating U.S. law by allowing its companies, individuals, and banks to facilitate North Korea’s sanctions evasion,” said Anthony Ruggiero, a Foundation for Defense of Democracies senior fellow and former U.S. Treasury official. China has also been upset by possible moves by the Trump administration to exert trade pressure on Beijing.    “(The draft) appears to reflect a compromise between the U.S. and China in several areas,” Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said. “It notably does not include any reduction in Chinese crude oil shipments to North Korea.” While supportive of new U.N. action, Security Council member Sweden said sanctions alone could not solve the problem. “More creative diplomacy is urgently needed. A long-term solution can only be achieved through dialogue and negotiations,” said Sweden’s Deputy U.N. Ambassador Carl Skau.  The United States had been informally keeping Britain and France in the loop on the bilateral negotiations, while U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said China had been sharing the draft and negotiating with Russia. It has not been clear if poor relations between Russia and the United States, which imposed new unilateral sanctions on Moscow on Wednesday, would hamper negotiations. Moscow has disagreed with assessments by Western powers that Pyongyang launched two long-range missiles, saying they were mid-range. Diplomats say China and Russia only view a test of a long-range missile or a nuclear weapon as a trigger for further possible U.N. sanctions. North Korea has been under U.N. sanctions since 2006 over its ballistic missile and nuclear programs and the Security Council has ratcheted up the measures in response to five nuclear weapons tests and two long-range missile launches. The U.N. diplomat said North Korea has been estimated to earn in 2017 $400 million from coal, $251 million from iron and iron ore, $113 million from lead and lead ore and $295 million from seafood. The diplomat said it was difficult to estimate how much North Korea was earning from sending workers abroad.  A United Nations human rights investigator said in 2015 that North Korea has forced more than 50,000 people to work abroad, mainly in Russia and China, earning the country between $1.2 billion and $2.3 billion a year for the government. |

Article 8937 | Date: August 5, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Zach Johnson, Pieters share lead at Firestone |
 | Content: (Reuters) - Late birdies from Thomas Pieters and Zach Johnson gave the duo a share of the lead after the third round of the World Golf Championship-Bridgestone Invitational on Saturday. Pieters, looking to become the first Belgian winner on the PGA Tour, birdied the 18th hole for a four-under-par 66 that moved him to nine-under-par 201 at Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio. His late birdie moved him level with twice major winner Johnson, who moments earlier had also birdied the last for a five-under-par 65 that briefly gave him the outright lead. The pair are one shot clear of Australian Scott Hend (63), with Japan’s Hideki Matsuyama (67) two shots back, and Rory McIlroy (68) tied with two others another shot further adrift. “If I would have walked off today with a 65 or a 66, I would have felt that was a fair reflection of how I played,” said McIlroy.  “But only three behind going into tomorrow, I can get off to a fast start and try and put a bit of pressure on the guys up ahead of me.” Overnight leader Jimmy Walker fell back after mixing two double-bogeys with two bogeys and two birdies for a four-over 74 that left him six back in a share of 10th with Bubba Watson (66), Jason Day (70) and U.S. Open champion Brooks Koepka (67). Day was frustrated after following a birdie at the par-five 16th with two bogeys that left him with much more work to do in the final round. “I’m pretty angry right now, to be honest,” said Day. “Going bogey-bogey is pretty poor coming down the stretch. I’ve got to do something special tomorrow so I get my chances back to try and win this thing.” British Open champion Jordan Spieth (71) saw his hopes fade after two bogeys over his final three holes left him seven shots back in a share of 16th. Pieters started the round two shots back of Walker and got off to a sizzling start with four birdies in his first five holes but started to unravel down the stretch. The long-hitting Belgian made a pair of bogeys starting at the 13th that dropped him back into a share of the lead. He did well to make birdie two holes later but then fell back into a share of the lead again after a bogey at the 17th. Hend’s 63, the lowest round of the day by two shots, was built on four birdies on each nine with his only blemish coming in the form of a three-putt bogey at the par-three seventh. |

Article 8943 | Date: August 6, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In Afghan review, Trump's frustration carries echoes of Obama years |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Since taking office, U.S. President Donald Trump has shown an affinity, and perhaps even a deference, to the generals he has surrounded himself with in his Cabinet and at the White House, save one exception: the war in Afghanistan. More than a dozen interviews with current and former U.S. officials familiar with the discussions reveal a president deeply frustrated with the lack of options to win the 16-year-old war, described internally as “an eroding stalemate.”  The debate carries echoes of the same dilemma Barack Obama faced in 2009. Then, as now, odds are that Trump will ultimately send more troops, current and former officials say. “It’s the least worst option,” one former U.S. official familiar with the discussions said, speaking on condition of anonymity, while acknowledging that with Trump, a pullout cannot be completely ruled out. Trump’s defense secretary, retired Marine Corps General Jim Mattis, has had the authority for nearly two months to add thousands more troops to the roughly 8,400 there now (down from a peak of more than 100,000 in 2011). Army General John Nicholson, commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, requested the troops back in February. But officials say Mattis won’t use his authority until he has buy-in from Trump for a strategic vision for America’s longest war. Beyond more troops for Afghanistan, the strategy would aim to address militant safe havens across the border in Pakistan. That too has become a divisive issue, with several members of Trump’s inner circle split on how hard to press Islamabad. Sources say that the discussions - which included a high-level White House meeting on Thursday - could drag out for the rest of the summer, blowing past a mid-July deadline to present a war strategy to an increasingly impatient Congress. After Thursday’s meeting, chaired by Vice President Mike Pence, people familiar with the deliberations told Reuters that a final decision did not appear imminent. Pentagon officials have declined to comment on internal deliberations. The White House has also declined to comment ahead of a decision on the strategy. While U.S.-backed fighters are rolling back Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the same cannot be said of the fight against the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan. U.S. intelligence agencies have assessed that the conditions in Afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through next year, even with a modest increase in military assistance from America and its allies. During a July 19 meeting in the White House Situation Room, Trump said Mattis and Marine General Joseph Dunford, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, might want to consider firing Nicholson, who was picked by Obama in 2016 to lead the war effort and has earned the respect of Afghan leaders.  “We aren’t winning,” Trump told them, according to accounts of the conversation. But current and former officials say the frustration had been mounting for months.  At least as far back as February, one former U.S. official said the internal deliberations about Afghanistan were not aimed  at creating a broad set of options for Trump. Shortly before McMaster was due to present his plan to Trump for approval ahead of the May NATO summit, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson declined to endorse it, saying Trump was not being presented with options, the former official and another current official said. “The lack of options meant that the only recommendation that was originally to be put forward to the president was essentially the status quo,” the former official said, discounting the troop increase as any serious shift in strategy. But in the months since, the possibility of a full pull-out has been repeatedly presented and refined along with a true “status-quo” option in which no new troops are sent to Afghanistan, but none are pulled out either. Still, U.S. defense leaders are not believed to be favoring those options. David Sedney, a former Pentagon policy advisor under the Obama administration, said failure to prioritize Afghanistan could replicate the mistakes by previous U.S. presidents.  “We’ve been ambivalent about Afghanistan for the last 17 years and when you have an ambivalent policy, it fails,” said Sedney, now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank in Washington. McMaster, Mattis, Tillerson, Dunford, Nicholson and some U.S. intelligence officials argue that refusing to commit more U.S. forces to train, equip and in some cases support the Afghan security forces would eventually result in the Taliban retaking most of the country from the U.S.-backed government in Kabul. Trump’s concerns about Afghanistan are shared by some senior officials close to the president, including chief strategist Steve Bannon, who, officials say, is skeptical about the need for an increase in troops in Afghanistan. Divisions have also emerged within Trump’s administration on how much to pressure Pakistan, and how quickly, in order to address militant safe havens blamed for helping prolong Afghanistan’s war. Nicholson, McMaster and Lisa Curtis, senior director for South and Central Asia at the National Security Council, favor taking a strong hand with Pakistan to deal with Taliban militants using that country as a base from which to plot attacks in Afghanistan, current and former officials say. On the other side are State Department officials and others at the Pentagon, including Dunford, who take a broader view of Pakistan’s strategic importance and are less convinced that harsh actions will secure more cooperation from Islamabad, they said. Pakistan fiercely denies allowing any militant safe havens on its territory.  The Trump administration is exploring a new approach toward Pakistan, Reuters has reported. Potential responses under discussion include expanding U.S. drone strikes, redirecting aid to Pakistan and perhaps eventually downgrading Pakistan’s status as a major non-NATO ally. |

Article 9100 | Date: August 17, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Missouri lawmaker criticized after wishing for Trump's assassination |
 | Content: (Reuters) - A Democratic Missouri state senator is facing calls for her resignation and an investigation by the U.S. Secret Service after posting - and then removing - a Facebook comment saying she wished President Donald Trump would be assassinated.     State Senator Maria Chappelle-Nadal has been criticized by state party leaders, and one of Missouri’s U.S. Senators and fellow Democrat, Claire McCaskill, called on her to resign. “There is too much rancor and hate in today’s political discourse, and Senator Chappelle-Nadal should be ashamed of herself for adding her voice to this toxic environment,” Missouri Senate minority leader Gina Walsh, a Democrat, said in a statement. Chappelle-Nadal’s comment was captured in a screengrab and posted on Twitter by a St. Louis radio host amid a firestorm of reaction to Trump’s comments about a rally staged by white nationalists and neo-Nazis in Charlottesville, Virginia. Hours after the rally on Saturday, called to protest the removal of a statue of pro-slavery Confederate General Robert E. Lee, a driver with white nationalist sympathies plowed his car into a crowd of counter-protesters, killing a 32-year-old woman and injuring 19 other people.   Trump insisted on Tuesday that both sides were to blame for the violence and on Thursday followed up with a series of tweets condemning the removal of “beautiful statues.” The monuments to the Confederacy are viewed by some as historical, but to African-Americans and others they are ugly symbols of slavery. As part of her reaction to Trump’s statements, Chappelle-Nadal, who represents part of St. Louis, wrote on Facebook early on Thursday, “I hope Trump is assassinated!,” according to a screengrab by a talk show host at St Louis radio station KMOX and reports in Missouri media. A spokeswoman for the White House declined to comment.  Chappelle-Nadal did not return calls or an email from Reuters requesting comment. “When the president apologizes, I’ll apologize,” she told  KMOX. “But I’m not apologizing for being frustrated and angry at a bigot that we have in our White House.” She added that she would not resign. Kristina Schmidt of the U.S. Secret Service office in St. Louis confirmed that her agency is investigating the lawmakers’ online comment but declined to say if agents have interviewed her. |

Article 9108 | Date: August 17, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's crisis spurs talk of White House departures |
 | Content: NEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s turnabout on the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia has rocked his administration, leading to rising speculation that some top officials may be looking for a way out.  A parade of business executives broke ties with Trump on Wednesday, a day after he blamed white nationalists and counter-protesters in equal measure for the weekend clashes that left one woman dead.  Now, frustrated aides could be next. Trump’s remarks have left some wondering if sticking by the president comes at too high a cost to their reputations.  “A lot of us joined this administration thinking we could bring to it the experience and expertise that the president didn’t have an opportunity to gain in his business career, and to encourage some restraint in what he says publicly and to our allies,” said one senior official who is contemplating whether to resign.  “After yesterday, it’s clear that there is no way for anyone, even a Marine general, to restrain his (Trump’s) impulses or counter what he sees on TV and reads on the web.” It was hoped that retired General John Kelly, Trump’s new chief of staff, could impose some form of discipline on Trump that his predecessor, Reince Priebus, could not.  But Kelly stood with his eyes fixed on the floor when Trump veered off-script at his Manhattan office tower on Tuesday. The president accused the protesters, who rallied against neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups in Charlottesville, of being “very, very violent.”  In the uproar that followed, chief executives at companies such as Merck & Co Inc , Under Armour Inc , Intel Corp , Campbell Soup Co  and 3M Co  quit advisory councils to the White House. Trump then dissolved the councils.  The exodus of executives sparked talk that Gary Cohn, Trump’s top White House economic adviser and a key liaison to the U.S. business community, might resign in protest as well.  Cohn, who is Jewish, was upset by Trump’s remarks, though he is remaining with the administration for now, sources said. Cohn, along with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, stood by Trump during his remarks at Trump Tower on Tuesday. Cohn in particular looked self-conscious and uncomfortable. “He just did not want to be in that position ... and he was not good at hiding his body language for that,” said a former administration official who knows Cohn.  Cohn did not comment on the president’s language.  David Shulkin, U.S. secretary of Veterans Affairs, told reporters on Wednesday that as a Jewish American, he was “outraged” by neo-Nazis and other white supremacist groups and felt obligated to speak out against them.  “I am not going to condone in any way the behavior of Nazis. I believe this clearly cannot be tolerated,” Shulkin said when asked about whether it was appropriate to compare the actions of the white nationalists to the protesters opposing them. Shulkin, however, defended Trump’s approach. “I think he’s been clear that this is totally unacceptable,” Shulkin said.  Cohn, who came to the White House from a successful career  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc, is mindful the effect his Trump tenure could have on his professional reputation. “He’s worried about his reputation being trashed, which is much more valuable to him than anything else,” the former administration official said. Cohn has served as a point man on top White House priorities such as tax reform and rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure, but both of those efforts have been muddled by Trump’s increasingly combative relationship with Congress, one that was strained even further by his comments on Charlottesville. Cohn’s departure would further set back those efforts and perhaps give the upper hand in the White House to a group of advisers seeking to scale back foreign trade, said a Wall Street executive who asked not to be named.  “Gary knows he’s a moderating influence,” the executive said. “It may give you short-term satisfaction to see Gary go, but it may be bad for the country in the long term. The calculation is: What do you think is best for the country versus what’s best for Gary?” Steve Bannon, a White House senior adviser with close ties to far-right groups, told the American Prospect in an interview published Wednesday that he constantly butts heads with Cohn over issues such as trade with China. “That’s a fight I fight every day here,” Bannon said.  Cowan and Company, a financial services firm, said on Wednesday that the departure of the pragmatic and business-friendly Cohn could adversely affect markets.  “For us, the biggest question is what is the tipping point that would cause National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn to quit?” the firm wrote.  Trump thinks highly of Cohn and has spoken often of the financial sacrifices he made to leave Goldman to join the administration. He is widely considered to be a leading candidate to chair the U.S. Federal Reserve should Trump choose not to retain Janet Yellen. That decision would insulate Cohn from the day-to-day drama of the Trump White House, but likely is months away.  In the meantime, Cohn has to decide whether he can stick it out. Another Wall Street executive told Reuters that Trump’s remarks may prove to be too much for him.  “Until yesterday, Cohn did a great job insulating himself from Trump and staying in the economic lane. But all of a sudden he was standing behind him when he goes off on a rampage and the true price of working for him comes home,” the executive said. “What can you do?” |

Article 9140 | Date: August 21, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. puts more pressure on Pakistan to help with Afghan war |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States suggested on Tuesday it could cut U.S. aid to Pakistan or downgrade Islamabad’s status as a major non-NATO ally to pressure the South Asian nation to do more to help it with the war in Afghanistan. A day after President Donald Trump committed to an open-ended conflict in Afghanistan and singled out Pakistan for harboring Afghan Taliban insurgents and other militants, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Washington’s relationship with Pakistan would depend on its help against terrorism. “We are going to be conditioning our support for Pakistan and our relationship with them on them delivering results in this area,” Tillerson told reporters.  U.S. officials are frustrated by what they see as Pakistan’s reluctance to act against groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on Pakistani soil to launch attacks on neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistan denies it harbors militants fighting U.S. and Afghan government forces in Afghanistan. Tillerson said the United States could consider withdrawing Pakistan’s status as a major non-NATO ally, which provides limited benefits such as giving Pakistan faster access to surplus U.S. military hardware, if cooperation did not improve. “We have some leverage that’s been discussed in terms of the amount of aid and military assistance we give them, their status as non-NATO alliance partner - all of that can be put on the table,” he said. In a televised speech on Monday offering few specifics, Trump promised a stepped-up military campaign against Taliban insurgents who have gained ground against the U.S.-backed Afghan government and he singled out Pakistan for harboring militants. U.S.-backed Afghan forces overthrew the Taliban’s hard-line Islamist government in late 2001 because it sheltered al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden, architect of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington that year.  U.S. forces have been bogged down since in a war that has vexed three American presidents. About 2,400 U.S. troops have died there in America’s longest military conflict.   (For a graphic on U.S. troops and contractors in Afghanistan click tmsnrt.rs/2xm6CxQ)  The Afghan government welcomed Trump’s speech, but the Taliban said it would make the country a “graveyard for the American empire.”     Successive U.S. administrations have struggled with how to deal with nuclear-armed Pakistan, which has a porous border with Afghanistan. Washington fumes about inaction against the Taliban, but Pakistan has cooperated on other U.S. counterterrorism efforts, including against al Qaeda and Islamic State militants. The Pakistani Foreign Ministry said it was “disappointing that the US policy statement ignores the enormous sacrifices rendered by the Pakistani nation” in fighting terrorism.  “As a matter of policy, Pakistan does not allow use of its territory against any country,” it said.      A senior U.S. official said on Tuesday significant measures were under consideration, including possibly sanctioning Pakistani officials with ties to extremist organizations. Trump also called for Pakistan’s great rival India to play a bigger role in Afghanistan, a prospect that will ring alarm bells for Pakistan’s generals.     “Trump’s policy of engaging India and threatening action may actually constrain Pakistan and lead to the opposite of what he wants,” said Zahid Hussain, a Pakistani security analyst. The United States has little choice but to use Pakistani roads and air corridors to resupply its troops in landlocked Afghanistan, giving Islamabad considerable leverage. U.S. officials fret that if Pakistan becomes an active foe, it could further destabilize Afghanistan and endanger U.S. soldiers.     Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Tuesday he was awaiting a plan from the U.S. military’s chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, before deciding how many more troops to send to Afghanistan. “When he brings that to me, I will determine how many more we need to send in,” Mattis told reporters in Baghdad. “It may or may not be the number that is bandied about.” U.S. officials have said Trump has given Mattis authority to send about 4,000 additional troops to add to the roughly 8,400 already in Afghanistan. The U.S. Air Force may intensify its strikes in Afghanistan and expand training of the Afghan air force following Trump’s decision, its top general told Reuters on Tuesday. Most U.S. troops in Afghanistan work with a NATO-led training and advising mission, with the rest part of a counterterrorism force that mostly targets pockets of al Qaeda and Islamic State fighters. |

Article 9150 | Date: August 21, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. puts more pressure on Pakistan to help with Afghan war |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States suggested on Tuesday it could cut U.S. aid to Pakistan or downgrade Islamabad s status as a major non-NATO ally to pressure the South Asian nation to do more to help it with the war in Afghanistan. A day after President Donald Trump committed to an open-ended conflict in Afghanistan and singled out Pakistan for harboring Afghan Taliban insurgents and other militants, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Washington s relationship with Pakistan would depend on its help against terrorism.  We are going to be conditioning our support for Pakistan and our relationship with them on them delivering results in this area,  Tillerson told reporters.  U.S. officials are frustrated by what they see as Pakistan s reluctance to act against groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on Pakistani soil to launch attacks on neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistan denies it harbors militants fighting U.S. and Afghan government forces in Afghanistan. Tillerson said the United States could consider withdrawing Pakistan s status as a major non-NATO ally, which provides limited benefits such as giving Pakistan faster access to surplus U.S. military hardware, if cooperation did not improve.  We have some leverage that s been discussed in terms of the amount of aid and military assistance we give them, their status as non-NATO alliance partner - all of that can be put on the table,  he said. In a televised speech on Monday offering few specifics, Trump promised a stepped-up military campaign against Taliban insurgents who have gained ground against the U.S.-backed Afghan government and he singled out Pakistan for harboring militants. U.S.-backed Afghan forces overthrew the Taliban s hard-line Islamist government in late 2001 because it sheltered al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden, architect of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington that year.  U.S. forces have been bogged down since in a war that has vexed three American presidents. About 2,400 U.S. troops have died there in America s longest military conflict.   (For a graphic on U.S. troops and contractors in Afghanistan click tmsnrt.rs/2xm6CxQ)  The Afghan government welcomed Trump s speech, but the Taliban said it would make the country a  graveyard for the American empire.      Successive U.S. administrations have struggled with how to deal with nuclear-armed Pakistan, which has a porous border with Afghanistan. Washington fumes about inaction against the Taliban, but Pakistan has cooperated on other U.S. counterterrorism efforts, including against al Qaeda and Islamic State militants. The Pakistani Foreign Ministry said it was  disappointing that the US policy statement ignores the enormous sacrifices rendered by the Pakistani nation  in fighting terrorism.   As a matter of policy, Pakistan does not allow use of its territory against any country,  it said.      A senior U.S. official said on Tuesday significant measures were under consideration, including possibly sanctioning Pakistani officials with ties to extremist organizations. Trump also called for Pakistan s great rival India to play a bigger role in Afghanistan, a prospect that will ring alarm bells for Pakistan s generals.      Trump s policy of engaging India and threatening action may actually constrain Pakistan and lead to the opposite of what he wants,  said Zahid Hussain, a Pakistani security analyst. The United States has little choice but to use Pakistani roads and air corridors to resupply its troops in landlocked Afghanistan, giving Islamabad considerable leverage. U.S. officials fret that if Pakistan becomes an active foe, it could further destabilize Afghanistan and endanger U.S. soldiers.     Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Tuesday he was awaiting a plan from the U.S. military s chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, before deciding how many more troops to send to Afghanistan.  When he brings that to me, I will determine how many more we need to send in,  Mattis told reporters in Baghdad.  It may or may not be the number that is bandied about.  U.S. officials have said Trump has given Mattis authority to send about 4,000 additional troops to add to the roughly 8,400 already in Afghanistan. The U.S. Air Force may intensify its strikes in Afghanistan and expand training of the Afghan air force following Trump s decision, its top general told Reuters on Tuesday. Most U.S. troops in Afghanistan work with a NATO-led training and advising mission, with the rest part of a counterterrorism force that mostly targets pockets of al Qaeda and Islamic State fighters. |

Article 9339 | Date: August 27, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: After deadly protests, Indian states in lockdown for 'godman's' rape sentencing |
 | Content: NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India is deploying thousands of riot police and shutting down internet services in two northern states, as it prepares for the sentencing on Monday of a self-styled  godman  whose followers went on the rampage after he was convicted of rape on Friday. Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh s cult Dera Sacha Sauda has a vast rural following in Punjab and Haryana states, where frenzied mobs burned down gas stations and train stations and torched vehicles after a local court found him guilty of raping two women in a 2002 case. At least 38 people were killed and more than 200 injured in the violence in Haryana, officials said, drawing sharp criticism for the state government run by Prime Minister Narendra Modi s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The case has also highlighted the Indian heartland s fascination with spiritual gurus, who enjoy immense political clout for their ability to mobilize millions of followers frustrated by the shortcomings of the state. Security forces have cordoned off a jail in Rohtak city, 70 km (44 miles) from New Delhi, where Singh - also known as the guru of bling for the clothes he wears in the movies he has starred in - is being held. The judge who convicted Singh will hold a special hearing inside the prison in Rohtak around 2.30 pm local time (0900 GMT) on Monday to decide the punishment, in a move that officials hope will prevent his followers from gathering in the streets like they did on Friday. Singh faces a minimum of seven years in prison. The town of Sirsa, home to Dera s headquarters, is already under lockdown, BS Sandhu, Haryana s police chief, told Reuters. School and colleges have been ordered shut, the government said.  We re fully prepared, we have a contingency plan in place,   Sandhu said, adding that more than 10,000 police would patrol the state as it awaits Singh s sentencing. Neighboring Punjab, where violence was sporadic, has summoned more than 8,000 paramilitary and police, banned large gatherings and switched off mobile internet connections across the state until Tuesday, its top administrator said.  Our intelligence reports caution that there could be arson and some other incidents,  Karan Avtar Singh, the chief secretary to Punjab government, told Reuters. In godman Singh s two films,  Messenger of God  and its sequel, there are sequences in which he fights off villains and tosses burning motorbikes into the air. In his spiritual avatar, Singh dresses in plain white traditional clothes, giving sermons or planting trees. In the movies he dons bejeweled costumes, rides motorbikes and sends bad guys flying. The Haryana government has faced severe criticism from opposition Congress and a state court for failing to stop the rioting and vandalism. Singh, whose verified Twitter profile calls him a saint, philanthropist, sportsman, actor, singer, movie director, writer, lyricists, and autobiographer, has been photographed with senior BJP leaders including Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Last year a Haryana minister announced the state would donate 5 million Indian rupees ($78,000) to Singh s Dera to promote sports. Bir Kumar Yadav, BJP s Haryana spokesman, said the party had been associated with Singh only in his capacity as a social worker who had spread awareness about public sanitation and cleanliness. Modi also weighed in on Sunday, vowing tough action against anyone trying to break the law.  I want to assure my countrymen that people who take the law into their own hands and are on the path of violent suppression - whether it is a person or a group - neither this country nor any government will tolerate it,  he said in his monthly radio address, without directly mentioning the recent violence. Singh s conviction in a rape case is the latest in a series of cases involving spiritual leaders who have been accused of sexually abusing followers, amassing untaxed money and finding favor with politicians. Besides the rape charges, he is also under investigation over allegations that he convinced 400 of his male followers to undergo castration, allegations he denies.     ($1 = 64.0000 Indian rupees) |

Article 9898 | Date: September 6, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: EU to raise pressure on Poland over democracy concerns: sources |
 | Content: TALLINN (Reuters) - European Union states will this month debate increasing pressure on Poland to uphold the rule of law, sources said, as the next stage in a process that could see its government formally denounced as anti-democratic. The nationalist Law and Justice (PiS) government in Warsaw has pushed through reforms to the judiciary and media that critics within the EU say have weakened the democratic order.  PiS rejects the criticism, accuses Brussels of overstepping its mandate and says it has broad backing for its reforms within Poland, a country of 38 million and formerly communist eastern Europe s dominant economy. After more than a year of growing pressure from the European Commission, the executive on Wednesday asked the bloc s 28 EU affairs ministers to discuss its concerns on Sept. 25, the day after national elections in Germany. The Commission s deputy head Frans Timmermans will brief the ministers on his so far futile efforts to persuade Warsaw to shift its position, the sources said. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has joined the growing chorus of those calling for firmer action on Poland and discussed the matter with the Commission s chief, Jean-Claude Juncker. Should Warsaw remain adamant, it eventually risks losing generous EU handouts if it continues to upset its wealthier peers that chip in for the funds, a debate gradually heating up in the bloc. For now, the EU has limited firepower at its disposal.  But it could trigger Article 7 proceedings under which it would ask the other 27 EU states to formally state that the rule of law was under threat in Poland - an action unprecedented in EU history. Timmermans has set a clear red line by saying that Article 7 would be opened should Warsaw start to fire the country s Supreme Court judges under the judicial overhaul. The dispute highlights Warsaw s growing isolation in the EU since the eurosceptic PiS won power there in 2015, but also a growing east-west divide within the bloc. Launching Article 7 would be a major embarrassment for Poland, but its regional ally Hungary - whose leader Viktor Orban also has a track record of crossing swords with Brussels - has made clear it would block any sanctions against it under the punitive procedure. In the west, increasingly frustrated with multiplying feuds with Warsaw that also touch on migration and environmental issues, some express renewed doubts about the 2004 EU enlargement that added eight ex-communist countries to the bloc.  In Poland, opposition parties sound alarm that PiS is reneging on fundamental EU values and could eventually risk sabotaging Poland s EU membership, which gave the country billions of euros and anchored it in the western world after decades of the Moscow-imposed communism after World War Two. But PiS has largely been successful in rallying its supporters around what it presents as standing up for Poland s national interests against the EU dictate, just as Orban has portrayed his own feuds with the bloc to his voters. The more immediate effect is that Warsaw is hemorrhaging political influence in the EU and has less capacity to shape the bloc s policies despite being the sixth largest state by population, and the fifth one after Britain leaves. |

Article 10083 | Date: September 7, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Tunisia's new government gets party backing for reform push |
 | Content: TUNIS (Reuters) - Tunisia s two main parties on Thursday gave parliamentary backing to Prime Minister Youssef Chahed s new cabinet, handing him the initiative to push sensitive economic reforms demanded by the International Monetary Fund. Chahed s cabinet needs strong support to reform public sector wages and overhaul the pension system to improve national finances. Infighting and social protests have kept past governments from pushing through tougher austerity reforms. Chahed on Wednesday named 13 new ministers including heads of the interior, defense and finance ministries. He appointed Taoufik Rajhi, one of his advisors from the Islamist Ennahda party, to a new economic reforms ministry in a deal that ends weeks of party infighting over posts. Rached Ghannouchi, the head of Ennahda party, called his 69 lawmakers in parliament to give a vote of confidence to the coalition government which includes ruling Nidaa Tounes, Machroua Tounes, the Republican and Massar parties.  The new cabinet also includes independents and former ministers who worked with ex-President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, ousted by a popular uprising in 2011. Ennahda won four important ministries, including the new ministry of economic reforms. Nidaa Tounes led by the son of President Beji Caid Essesbi welcomed the reshuffle in which his party secured six new posts and other junior portfolios.  This reshuffle maintained political balances, boosted the political weight of our party, we will give our confidence to the new team,  Sofian Tobal an official in Nidaa Tounes said. Backing from the two main parties means Chahed s government can expect support from at least 150 lawmakers in the 217-seat parliament. Ennahda and Nidaa Tounes have more than 130 seats between them plus the support of smaller parties. Chahed s cabinet needs 109 votes to win a confidence ballot.  This government would be like a war cabinet, in a war against the corruption, against rampant unemployment and a war to save the economy,  Chahed said on Wednesday. He has said he will present parliament with a comprehensive plan to push the economy forward, including accelerating the coordination of public-private partnerships and proposing more incentives to investors.  We will confront the imbalance in public finances, adjust the trade balance and improve the situation of public institutions that are facing difficulties, as well progress on major priority reforms,  he said. Tunisia is struggling to revive its economy and create jobs for frustrated youth. But it is under pressure to reduce deficits by stopping public sector hiring, laying off thousands of state employees and selling shares in some troubled public institutions. Reforms are also expected to include cuts in subsidies for energy and some basic materials, which would be highly sensitive and rejected by Tunisia strong unions who have in the past played the role of political power brokers. |

Article 10145 | Date: September 8, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Republicans see tax reform complicated by Trump deal with Democrats |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Republican party lawmakers warned on Friday that President Donald Trump’s legislative deal with Democrats to help hurricane victims and keep the government running for another three months could complicate his next big priority - tax reform. Trump’s sudden shift in strategy hands a clear victory to Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer and House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi and that could slow the Republicans’ legislative agenda, they said. “This kind of creates complications relative to tax reform,” said Representative Ryan Costello from Pennsylvania. “It seems to me that there’s an element of unpredictability from one issue to the next and this week is sort of a reflection of that.”  “There was a lot of work going into how this was going to take shape in September. And that was entirely undermined … seemingly very spontaneously.” Following Trump’s deal with Democratic leaders, the House of Representatives on Friday approved legislation that provides $15.25 billion in emergency disaster aid for the victims of Hurricane Harvey, which battered coastal areas of Texas and Louisiana last week, and Hurricane Irma, which is expected to pound Florida in coming days. Already approved by the Senate on Thursday, the deal also raises the U.S. government’s debt ceiling and allows it to continue financing federal spending programs until Dec. 8, the new deadline for a deal on both issues. But some Republicans fear the Democrats will be able to use their negotiating clout in early December to resist changes on key tax issues, especially the corporate tax rate, which     Trump wants to cut from 35 percent to 15 percent. Republican Senator Ben Sasse said the experience of watching Trump empower Democrats had been “embarrassing” for a Republican-controlled Congress and that the deal made Schumer “the most powerful man in America.” Sasse was one of 17 Senate Republicans who voted against the deal on Thursday. In the House, all 90 “no” votes came from Republicans but the deal passed comfortably with 183 Democrats and 133 Republicans in favor.  The White House said Trump’s shift in strategy this week clears away complicated issues like the debt ceiling and government funding, both of which had to be resolved in September, so Congress can concentrate more fully on tax reform, which Republicans want to complete by the end of the year.  After the failure of Republican efforts to overturn former President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act in July, Trump and lawmakers need a legislative victory to shore up their hopes of maintaining Republican majorities in next year’s midterm elections.  Some House Republicans are already frustrated by a lack of details on tax reform from the administration. They hope to see  more as soon as next week, though some are skeptical. “My expectations are low. I think if they had something big they’d be floating elements of it now,” said Representative Darrell Issa.  How House Republicans respond to the tax plan will help determine the challenges they may face passing a fiscal year 2018 budget resolution that is critical to the Republican strategy for tax reform.  The budget contains a procedural rule that would allow Republicans to enact tax legislation with a simple majority in the Senate, which they control by a 52-48 margin. Republican aides said House leaders had expected to bring the budget to the floor next week, but the document now needs changes to include government revenue projections that take into account current tax policy and the failure to repeal Obamacare,  aides say. Members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, a formidable bloc in the House, have said they will not support the budget until they see the tax reform plan and want the resolution to contain more cuts to federal spending than the $203 billion over a decade that it already contains.   It was not clear whether the budget resolution could now suffer from conservative anger over Friday’s vote. Many conservatives have long called for lawmakers to couple any measures that raise the U.S. debt ceiling with reforms to cut spending. The deal that passed on Friday did the opposite by attaching an increase in the debt ceiling to more spending to keep the government open, as well as adding money for hurricane relief without making any spending cuts elsewhere. “I love President Trump and I’m with him probably 90 or 95 percent of the time. But I don’t think it’s appropriate to raise the debt ceiling with a $19 trillion public debt and not have any effort to change the way we spend money here in Washington,” said Joe Barton, a House Freedom Caucus member. Mark Meadows, who chairs the House Freedom Caucus, said he did not feel betrayed by Trump and that the legislation was a “unique situation” brought about by the massive storm damage in Texas and Louisiana. “Because of hurricane relief, there wasn’t a whole lot of options,” Meadows said on MSNBC.  But, he added: “Our grassroots are very confused.” |

Article 10265 | Date: September 9, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Amid tension, Trump and Turkey's Erdogan agree to strengthen ties |
 | Content: ANKARA (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and Turkey s Tayyip Erdogan spoke on Saturday and agreed to continue to work toward stronger ties and regional security, Erdogan s office said, a day after he lashed out at U.S. authorities for indicting one of his ex-ministers. Ties between the United States and its NATO ally have been strained by Washington s support for the YPG Kurdish fighters in the battle against Islamic State in Syria. Turkey considers the YPG a terrorist group. Ankara has also been frustrated by what it sees as Washington s reluctance to extradite the Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen. Turkey blames Gulen, who has lived in Pennsylvania since 1999, for last year s failed coup.  Noting the strategic partnership between Turkey and the United States, the two leaders emphasized the importance of continuing to work together to further strengthen bilateral relations and increase stability in the region,  the Turkish Presidency said in a statement. The two leaders agreed to meet in New York at the United States General Assembly, scheduled for this month. The call was notable for its timing, coming a day after Erdogan described a U.S. prosecutor s indictment against Turkey s former economy minister as being politically motivated and tantamount to an attack on Ankara. The former minister, Zafer Caglayan, and the ex-head of a state-owned Turkish bank were charged this week with conspiring to violate Iran sanctions by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the U.S. financial system on Tehran s behalf. The indictment marked the first time an ex-government member with close ties to Erdogan had been charged in the on-going U.S. investigation, which has strained ties between the two countries.  For the moment, it is impossible to evaluate this within legal logic,  he told reporters on Friday.  I see this step against our former economy minister as a step against the Turkish Republic. He had also called on Washington to re-think the charges.  I hope we ll get a chance to discuss this issue in the United States. You may be a big nation, but being a just nation is something else. Being a just nation requires the legal system to work fairly. |

Article 10287 | Date: September 9, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: France, Germany, Italy, Spain seek tax on digital giants' revenues |
 | Content: PARIS (Reuters) - France, Germany, Italy and Spain want digital multinationals like Amazon and Google to be taxed in Europe based on their revenues, rather than only profits as now, their finance ministers said in a joint letter. France is leading a push to clamp down on the taxation of such companies, but has found support from other countries also frustrated at the low tax they receive under current international rules.     Currently such companies are often taxed on profits booked by subsidiaries in low-tax countries like Ireland even though the revenue originated from other EU countries.  We should no longer accept that these companies do business in Europe while paying minimal amounts of tax to our treasuries,  the four ministers wrote in a letter seen by Reuters. The letter, signed by French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire, Wolfgang Schaeuble of Germany, Pier-Carlo Padoan of Italy and Luis de Guindos, was addressed to the EU s Estonian presidency with the bloc s executive Commission in copy. They urged the Commission to come up with a solution creating an  equalization tax  on turnover that would bring taxation to the level of corporate tax in the country where the revenue was earned.  The amounts raised would aim to reflect some of what these companies should be paying in terms of corporate tax,  the ministers said in the letter, first reported on by the Financial Times. Le Maire, Schaeuble, Padoan and de Guindos of Spain said they wanted to present the issue to other EU counterparts at a Sept. 15-16 meeting in Tallinn. The EU s current Estonian presidency has scheduled a discussion at the meeting about the concept of  permanent establishment , with the aim of making it possible to tax firms where they create value, not only where they have their tax residence. France has stepped up pressure for EU tax rules after facing legal setbacks trying to obtain payments for taxes on activities in the country. A French court ruled in July French court ruled that Google, now part of Alphabet Inc, was not liable to pay 1.1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in back taxes because it had no  permanent establishment  in France and ran its operations there from Ireland. |

Article 10378 | Date: September 10, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: With Trump meeting, Malaysia's PM seeks to put 1MDB scandal behind him |
 | Content: KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - In a room packed with Malaysian civil servants, foreign ministry secretary general Ramlan Ibrahim raised his right hand as he read out an anti-corruption pledge. He was among thousands of state officials nationwide to take such an oath in the past several weeks, part of an anti-graft campaign called by Prime Minister Najib Razak.  The citizens are becoming more informed   they ask for public service which is more efficient, transparent and fair,  Ramlan said after the event in Putrajaya, the administrative capital. The campaign comes as Najib prepares to meet President Donald Trump in the United States this week, where the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are pursuing investigations into 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), a state fund the prime minister oversaw. Najib must also call a general election by mid-2018 although some commentators have suggested he could do so this year itself. The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) has arrested  dozens of top officials under the anti-graft campaign, including officers at national oil company Petronas and state-controlled palm oil firm Felda. More than 600 arrests were made just this year, MACC data showed. The actions are unusual in the Southeast Asian country, where corruption is seen as widespread. Four out of five Malaysians aged 18-35 cited corruption as the most serious issue facing the country, according to a survey released last month by the Global Shapers Community, a programme under the World Economic Forum.     But critics say the campaign ignores the elephant in the room: 1MDB. The state fund is being investigated in at least six countries for money-laundering and misappropriation of funds, including an alleged $681 million transfer into the prime minister s personal account.  Malaysia s attorney-general closed the 1MDB probe in January 2016, and cleared Najib of any wrongdoing.   The U.S. Justice Department has sought to seize about $1.7 billion in assets allegedly bought with stolen 1MDB funds. Its lawsuits say those involved included Najib s step-son Riza Aziz and his close associate Jho Low.  In court filings last Tuesday, the FBI, which is conducting a criminal investigation, alleged that potential witnesses in the case fear for their safety and need protection.  But investigations into 1MDB in Malaysia appear to have shut down. MACC had  a roomful  of files on 1MDB, a former MACC official told Reuters, but the commission could not pursue it once Malaysia s attorney-general declared the case closed.  In a way, this campaign is the MACC trying to show that it is doing its job. Even if they cannot secure a conviction (against their targets), the MACC can show that it has done all it could to stamp out major corruption,  said the former official, who declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter. Cynthia Gabriel, director of the Kuala Lumpur-based Center to Combat Corruption and Cronyism (C4), said there was  enough substance  for MACC to reopen the case on 1MDB.  MACC declined to comment on whether the commission would reopen its 1MDB investigation.   No comment on that, we are very fair in investigating anybody here, whoever they are,  deputy chief commissioner Azam Baki told reporters in Putrajaya. Anti-corruption campaigners say they fear Trump s invitation to Najib to visit the United States may affect the investigations in the United States.  Territorial influence and geopolitical interests of the United States appears to have hollowed out its commitment to fight international corruption, much to the detriment of the future of Malaysia and the world,  Gabriel said. U.S.-based Human Rights Watch (HRW) said Trump s invitation was  particularly inappropriate , given Najib s use of repressive laws to stifle critics.  There s little doubt that Najib will use this White House visit to burnish his credentials going into next year s election in Malaysia, and redouble his repression of critics using the stamp of approval from this visit,  HRW s deputy Asia director Phil Robertson told Reuters.  Najib has said he hopes his visit will drum up more trade and investment for Malaysia.  I would like to see this as a two way mutually beneficial partnership,  he told reporters on Friday.  I hope the U.S. sees Malaysia as a reliable partner on issues such as trade and investment, security partnership, counter terrorism and I also hope that U.S. companies see us as among the best countries to invest in.  A government source said a defense agreement was also on the table, although no details were immediately available. Senior leaders of the ruling United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) are concerned the party may suffer election losses from the string of graft scandals linked to Najib, a source aware of discussions within the party said. With Najib and the MACC s clean-up campaign, the source said, the party hopes to appease Malaysians frustrated with the corruption and draw back foreign investors who fled as the probe into 1MDB expanded. Besides diverting attention from 1MDB, critics say Najib is also using MACC s anti-graft campaign to target political opponents such as Lim Guan Eng, an opposition leader who is the top elected official in Penang province. He has been charged with abuse of power in the purchase of a bungalow.  You are going after all sorts of offences, but the biggest one, it stinks to high heaven,  said Lim, the secretary-general of the Democratic Action Party.  Everyone can smell it, except you. |

Article 10386 | Date: September 11, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: 'Big Six' member says tax reform blueprint to follow Senate hearings |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A U.S. Republican senator involved in U.S. tax reform negotiations said on Monday that he expects to share the Trump tax reform plan with other lawmakers after holding hearings on overhauling the tax code. “We’re going to have hearings first, and then we’ll go from there. We’ll share it at that time,” Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, a member of the “Big Six” tax reform policymakers, told reporters.  “I want everybody to participate and to know what we’re doing. I don’t want anybody to feel like they haven’t been consulted,” he added. Hatch’s committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on individual tax reform on Thursday, and the lawmaker said more hearings could follow. The timeline suggests that members of Congress may not get a look at the emerging tax reform plan until the last week of September at the earliest. The House of Representatives is scheduled to be in recess next week. As recently as Friday, House Republicans had said they expected to learn as early as this week about a tax reform framework from the “Big Six” senior tax policymakers from Congress and the Trump administration. The six are Hatch, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House economic adviser Gary Cohn. They have been negotiating for months to hammer out a deal on tax reform.  President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress campaigned last year on a promise to slash individual and business taxes as part of a tax reform package that would also simplify the sprawling U.S. tax code.  Trump said over the weekend that he would call on Congress to speed up the process. But the Big Six have yet to finalize an agreement, and lobbyists say the group is still undecided on basic elements of a tax reform plan, including whether tax legislation should add to the federal deficit or be revenue-neutral. The lack of progress has eroded hopes of completing tax reform before the end of 2017 and frustrated efforts to pass a budget resolution containing a vital procedural tool needed to move tax legislation forward on a simple majority in the Senate, which Republicans control by only 52 to 48 seats. Mnuchin and Cohn are expected discuss the prospects for a budget resolution at a Tuesday meeting with members of the Senate Budget Committee. |

Article 10473 | Date: September 11, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Philippines says some rebels ready to surrender as troops advance in Marawi |
 | Content: MARAWI CITY, Philippines (Reuters) - Some Islamic State-linked militants besieging the southern Philippines city of Marawi have sent  feelers  they are prepared to surrender after three and a half months of fighting, the military said on Monday. Philippine forces have used loudspeakers urging militants to give themselves up, telling the estimated 50 to 60 fighters left in the city their lives would be spared if they disarm, change out of their black clothes and walk to a designated location.  Hopefully, we will have surrenders within the next days,  spokesman Colonel Romeo Brawner told a news conference.  There are feelers. Definitely, there are feelers,  he added, declining to elaborate. The surrender offer came after a renewed, if short-lived, effort by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte to start back-channel talks with militants, with a former Marawi mayor Omar Solitario Ali to have acted as an intermediary. Duterte on Saturday ruled out the possibility of allowing rebels to flee in exchange for the release of dozens of hostages. Two troops were killed at the weekend, taking to 147 the number of security forces killed in the Marawi conflict. Some 655 militants and 45 civilians have been killed, according to the army. Troops were engaged in running battles with the militant alliance, led by Abdullah and Omarkhayam Maute of the Maute group, and Isnilon Hapilon, a factional head of the Abu Sayyaf group, and Islamic State s so-called  emir  in Southeast Asia. More than 20 structures were captured, many laden with booby traps. Some were commercial high-rise buildings that have been used as sniper positions to thwart government forces. Brawner described the operations as  a big accomplishment considering the enemy established very strong defensive positions . While some areas of Marawi are seeing citizens return and shops and schools re-open, most of the city remains deserted. Its center is a wasteland, pummeled by daily air strikes and ground battles. The resistance of the militants has frustrated the more than 400,000 residents displaced from the area and raised questions about how relatively few Islamists took control of the lakeside town and held significant parts of it.  We are receiving a lot of questions: why is it taking too long for the government to recover this area?  said Brawner.  It is really difficult to do urban fighting.  The United States has been giving technical and logistics support to the Philippine military and on Monday announced it had deployed a Gray Eagle unmanned surveillance aircraft over Marawi. Australia has also provided two P3-Orion surveillance planes and last week announced it would send more defense personnel to train Philippine troops.  For a graphic on how main Islamic militant groups in Mindanao evolved, click: here For a graphic on Islamic militant strongholds in Mindanao, click: here |

Article 10493 | Date: September 12, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senator McConnell says ending U.S. debt ceiling would be challenging |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell voiced doubt on Tuesday that the U.S. debt ceiling would be eliminated permanently, an idea floated by Democrats and embraced by Republican President Donald Trump last week. “As far as the debt ceiling is concerned, we will not be revisiting the debt ceiling until some time next year,” McConnell told reporters. “And getting Congress to give up a tool like that would probably be quite a challenging undertaking.” Congress must periodically raise the debt limit to keep the U.S. government borrowing and operating. Lawmakers sometimes take advantage of that need to push through policy or spending changes.  Trump voiced support last week for the idea of eliminating the statutory cap on the U.S. Treasury Department’s authority to borrow, saying he discussed the possibility with congressional leaders. “It complicates things. It’s really not necessary,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Thursday. At a White House meeting a day earlier, Trump made a surprise deal with Democratic congressional leaders for extending the debt limit for three months tied to hurricane relief legislation and funding for government operations into December. In the meeting, which was also attended by top congressional Republicans and administration officials, Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer proposed eliminating the debt limit, and Trump and Vice President Mike Pence said they liked the idea, one person familiar with the meeting said. White House budget chief Mick Mulvaney told Fox News Channel that Trump was frustrated by the way the debt ceiling has been used and had asked him to “explore ways to sort of depoliticize it.” “We’ll continue to work on that. I don’t think the debt ceiling ... will be an issue until January, February of next year,” Mulvaney said. Some Republicans expressed opposition to Trump’s deal with the Democrats, and conservative groups accused the president of caving in rather than insisting on spending cuts to accompany the debt ceiling increase. But the House of Representatives and the Senate, which are both controlled by Republicans, quickly approved the deal, including about $15 billion in hurricane-related aid, and it was signed into law by Trump on Friday. |

Article 10539 | Date: September 12, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Opposition stays away as Kenyatta warns against 'destructive division' |
 | Content: NAIROBI (Reuters) - Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta opened parliament on Tuesday by warning against divisive and destructive politics, while opposition lawmakers boycotted the legislature and rallied to demand the resignation of election officials. Kenya held parliamentary, presidential and local elections on Aug. 8, but the Supreme Court nullified the presidential  results three weeks later, citing irregularities in the tallying process. New elections are scheduled for Oct. 17. While calling for unity and respect for the constitution, Kenyatta delivered a thinly veiled warning to the opposition lawmakers who had chosen to stay away from parliament.  My government will not tolerate anyone intent on disrupting our hard-won peace and stability. Under no circumstances must Kenyans ever allow our free competitive processes to become a threat to the peace and security of our nation,  he said, to foot-stamping and cheering from ruling party legislators.    We shall continue to encourage vibrant democratic competition, we shall not allow destructive division.  As he spoke, opposition leaders held a rally in Kibera, the capital s largest slum, rejecting the Oct. 17 date unless officials on the election board, whom they blame for mishandling the polls, resign.   Now we are putting it squarely to you that the Supreme Court of this country has found you incompetent,  said Kalonzo Musyoka, running mate of Kenyatta s presidential rival Raila Odinga. The surprise election annulment initially raised fears of short-term political turmoil in Kenya, the region s richest nation and a staunch Western ally in a region roiled by conflict.  But it also raised hopes among frustrated opposition supporters, who believe the last three elections have been stolen from them, that the east African nation s tarnished courts could deliver them justice.  That hope helped tamp down protests that threatened to spark the kind of violence that followed disputed 2007 elections, when around 1,200 people were killed in ethnic bloodletting.  In a separate development, a ruling party lawmaker and a former opposition senator appeared in a Nairobi court, charged with incitement to violence over speeches they had made in the past week. Both were freed on a 300,000 Kenya shilling ($3,000) bond.  A government body monitoring hate speech says that it has seen a spike since the Supreme Court ruling. More than three times as many incidents were reported in the week following the ruling than during the whole 10-week election campaign, it said. |

Article 10883 | Date: September 15, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: State Department describes plans for cuts, offers few specifics: sources |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - State Department officials briefed Senate staff on Friday on plans to cut up to $10 billion from the department’s budget over five years, but offered few specifics to ease concerns that the administration risked weakening U.S. standing in the world. The plan is the result of an ongoing assessment of the department ordered by President Donald Trump’s secretary of state, Rex Tillerson. It includes broad goals such as “maximizing the impact of foreign assistance” and “improving governance” for information technology platforms, according to a copy of the presentation seen by Reuters. Members of Congress have been vying with the Trump administration for more influence over foreign policy. In particular, many lawmakers, including some of Trump’s fellow Republicans, worry about his plans to slash the State Department budget to help boost military spending. The Republican-led Senate Appropriations Committee issued a blistering report last week accompanying its spending plan for State, accusing the Trump administration of pursuing a “doctrine of retreat” on foreign policy. Last week, the committee voted 31-0 for legislation allocating more than $51 billion for the State Department and foreign operations next year, nearly $11 billion more than the Trump administration’s request. The presentation was more specific as it listed what State and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) did not intend to do. That list said there is no plan to dismantle State and USAID, eliminate the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor, or concentrate power in Tillerson’s hands. A Senate aide who attended said both Republicans and Democrats seemed frustrated at the lack of specifics.  “It was tense in the room at times, with staff from both parties asking for specifics and warning the State Department officials that it would be difficult to defend this given the lack of specificity and the ongoing problems with early, consistent Congressional consultation on a range of issues,” the aide said. Tillerson wants to eliminate more than 2,000 positions at State, out of some 75,000 worldwide. At a news conference this week, Senator Lindsey Graham, the Republican chairman of the subcommittee that oversees State Department spending, spoke of his opposition to such cuts to diplomacy and foreign aid. “I fear that we’re going to get caught blindsided without a robust State Department,” Graham said, saying that ensuring national security requires soft power as well as a strong military. |

Article 11248 | Date: September 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Taking back control? Britain's May to make high-stakes Brexit speech |
 | Content: LONDON (Reuters) - After months of Brexit talks that have made little progress and deepened rifts in her party, British Prime Minister Theresa May will try this week to put the negotiations on track and reassert her authority.  In a speech in the Italian city of Florence, May will set out on Friday her vision for future ties with the European Union and try to fill an apparent policy vacuum that has left her Brexit team adopting what Brussels regards as wrecking tactics in the talks on unraveling four decades of union. The 60-year-old leader has deliberately chosen an EU city to deliver the speech so that she can speak directly to the other 27 nations in the bloc, but has her work cut out in seizing back the initiative. May has been largely quiet on Brexit since her Conservative Party lost its parliamentary majority in a June election that she need not have called, saying little beyond expressing her support for  a deep and special partnership  with the bloc once Britain leaves in March 2019. But days before the speech, foreign minister Boris Johnson laid out his own Brexit vision, challenging her more cautious approach and exposing the fault lines in her party and government. EU negotiators are also frustrated with what they see as Britain s policy drift. At talks in August, British officials spent almost three hours picking holes in the legal basis for the bill that the EU expects London to pay to leave.  Sources familiar with the presentation   so detailed it stretched for 11 pages and was illustrated with 23 slides   called it a show of legal muscle. But, as Brexit minister David Davis said, the meeting was even  tetchier than the one before .  The reason lawyers gave a two-and-a-half hour presentation is because no government minister had made a decision on policy,  said Andrew Hood, who was a legal adviser to former prime minister David Cameron and still has contact with lawyers in several government departments. The August talks were almost canceled by the EU side because of Britain s lack of position, Hood told Reuters.  I always thought when I was in the foreign office that if you ever need to revert to lawyers you ve probably lost,  he said. Hood now advises companies on their Brexit strategy for law firm Dechert but took part in meetings with the EU under Cameron, who resigned last year after Britons voted for Brexit. The financial settlement with Brussels is one of the most difficult parts of the Brexit negotiations, but the lack of movement so far on even the mechanics of how to calculate the sum shows the difficulties facing Britain. May is walking a tightrope between hardline Conservative Brexit supporters who want to make sure any payment is as small as possible, and some top ministers who believe Britain must pay to keep ties as close as possible. Until now, she has largely let her government do the talking by setting out a wishlist for future relations with the bloc that aims for the closest of ties without the costs. May has also stuck to a belief that by playing her cards close to her chest, Britain will force EU negotiators into concessions. But her silence has allowed other voices to emerge. The main opposition Labour Party says it would keep Britain in the single European market and customs union during a transitional period, the Liberal Democrats are demanding a second referendum and the Scottish National Party wants Scotland to remain part of the EU. Their opposition is to be expected, but criticism from May s own team is not, and has raised eyebrows.  In a weekend newspaper article, Johnson wrote that he did not expect Britain to pay for access to the EU s market, putting him at odds with finance minister Philip Hammond and May, who has spoken of paying in. At the August talks, left without clear policy direction, Davis and his team s detailed dissection of the EU s arguments on the Brexit bill left the bloc s main negotiator Michel Barnier wondering whether  we can build trust and start discussing a future relationship . Weeks earlier, a former aide to May had praised the emerging agreement in her cabinet over the need for a transition deal and a divorce settlement   something that seemed remote after last year s Brexit referendum.  But though there may be agreement on this in principle, the difference lies in the detail and has opened a deep rift.  Hammond wants a transition as close as possible to the status quo while others, such as trade minister Liam Fox, do not want to stay in the single market or pay for access. Pro-Brexit lawmakers have also balked at suggestions Britain should pay 60 billion euros ($72 billion) for the divorce, and May s aides have poured cold water on reports that there could be a compromise to reduce the headline figure by paying 10 billion pounds a year to the EU during a transition. In a move that appeared intended to tighten her control over the Brexit talks, May appointed the top official at the Brexit ministry as her EU adviser on Monday. But resetting the talks is a tough order, and aides are silent on whether May will use the Florence speech to try to break the deadlock on the financial settlement.  Officials in Brussels are not holding their breath.  The EU has taken the black veil off and is getting on with its life,  one EU official said after the August talks.  The Brits are either completely overconfident or completely overwhelmed. |

Article 11255 | Date: September 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: EU's Tusk, UK's May to talk Brexit next Tuesday |
 | Content: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Council President Donald Tusk said he would meet with British Prime Minister Theresa May in London next Tuesday to discuss Brexit, days after she is due to make a keynote speech on her vision for future ties with the EU. He made the comment in a tweet after meeting May at the United Nations General Assembly. The London meeting between the pair will come at a sensitive time - just after her speech in Florence on Friday and before an EU heads of state dinner on Sept. 28 in Tallinn, Estonia. The Financial Times said May s top EU adviser has told his counterparts in several European that she would in Florence offer to fill a post-Brexit EU budget hole of at least 20 billion euros. The newspaper cited officials briefed on the discussions. Senior EU officials have given talk of such offers short shrift. They have dismissed suggestions floated in British media that an offer of up to 30 billion euros payable during a transition period after Brexit would be acceptable to Brussels.  It could not be, they have said, an alternative to the 60 billion or so that the EU executive has estimated may be payable before Brexit in March 2019. Brussels negotiators acknowledge privately that it may help the British government  sell  its settlement to domestic voters if London can meld the exit payments with transition payments to reduce the headline  divorce bill . EU officials told Reuters there would be no discussion of Brexit at the Tallinn dinner but that May might take the opportunity to brief the bloc s other 27 leaders on her position. Talks on Brexit have made little progress and deepened rifts in May s party, setting up the Florence speech as a chance to put negotiations back on track and reassert her authority. While Tusk is coordinating the 27 EU leaders on Brexit, only Michel Barnier is negotiating with the British and they have made clear to London that he is the only point of contact for Brexit talks. Barnier s negotiating directives have frustrated his British counterparts, who want to move the talks from divorce issues such as the EU departure bill and Irish border to future relations. Barnier first wants to see progress on the terms of Britain s exit. |

Article 11347 | Date: September 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Trump to speak in 'tough terms' about North Korea in first U.N. speech |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - President Donald Trump will speak forcefully about the threat posed by North Korea during his first address to the United Nations on Tuesday while knocking those he sees as enabling Pyongyang.  He will speak in extremely tough terms about the North Korean menace and the threat it poses to our security and the security of all the nations in that room,  a White House official told reporters in a call previewing Trump s remarks at the U.N. General Assembly.  And he will talk about, as well, the enablement of the North Korean regime and what that means too,  the official said.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, did not elaborate, but his mention of  enablement  was likely a reference to China, which has frustrated Trump by failing to rein in North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. North Korea s nuclear tests and missile launches have stirred global tensions Trump spoke to Chinese President Xi Jinping earlier on Monday and committed to keep up pressure on North Korea by enforcing U.N. resolutions, the White House said. On Tuesday, Trump is also expected to go hard against Iran during a speech that the official said would espouse the importance of state sovereignty.  It s an appeal to each nation to use sovereignty as the basis for mutual cooperation, the idea being that rather than appealing to a top-down model of global bureaucracy, it s a model that s from the nation-state up,  he said. Border control, trade and international agreements that are unfavorable to the United States represented threats to U.S. sovereignty, the official said. The theme is consistent with Trump s  America First  philosophy that helped him win election last year. [nL2N1LF26C] Trump has been critical of international organizations, including NATO and the United Nations. On Monday, he criticized the 193-nation body for a bloated bureaucracy and mismanagement, but said reforms would help it emerge stronger and more effective. |

Article 11719 | Date: September 22, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Turkish missile deal with Russia reflects stormy relationship with NATO |
 | Content: ABOARD THE TCG ALEMDAR (Reuters) - In blazing sunlight, two dozen U.S. and Turkish sailors on a NATO exercise lower an American diving bell from an advanced Turkish rescue ship, sending it deep under the Aegean Sea where it is secured to a submarine.     Part of a combined NATO rescue simulation this week off Turkey s southwest coast, the seamless cooperation at sea comes amidst a storm between Ankara and its alliance allies who are  concerned about its decades-old commitment to the organization. Under President Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey, with NATO s second-biggest army, has sought to bolster ties with Russia and Iran.  In a clear sign of rapprochement, Ankara is buying a missile defense system from Russia - unnerving NATO officials, who are already wary of Moscow s military presence in the Middle East, as the system is incompatible with the alliance s systems.   Turkey said it opted for the S-400 anti-aircraft system because Western arms suppliers had not offered a  financially effective  alternative. The Pentagon said it expressed concern to Turkey about the deal.  They went crazy because we made the S-400 agreement. What were we supposed to do, wait for (them)?  Erdogan said recently.  If we have difficulty in obtaining any defense element from some places, if our initiatives are often frustrated by obstacles, what will we do? We will sort it out on our own.  Erdogan s frustration stems from Washington s support for the Syrian Kurdish YPG in the fight against Islamic State. Ankara sees the YPG as an extension of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has carried out an insurgency in Turkey s largely Kurdish southeast and is considered a terrorist organization by the United States and Europe as well as Turkey. The president was also angry that U.S. prosecutors charged his former economy minister for conspiring to violate U.S. sanctions on Iran. The indictment marked the first time an ex-government member with close ties to Erdogan had been charged in the investigation that has strained relations between Washington and Ankara.  Part of the reason Erdogan is doing this S-400 deal is he s angry with the U.S. over the indictment of the former economy minister as well as continued U.S. cooperation with the YPG,  said Soner Cagaptay, a fellow at the Washington Institute think-tank and author of  The New Sultan: Erdogan and the Crisis of Modern Turkey .  He s using the S-400 as a lever, in terms of bargaining, to convince Washington to change its mind on a number of issues.  Ties with Europe, especially Germany, were hit by Turkey s crackdown after last year s failed coup. Some 150,000 people were purged from the civil service, military and private sector and over 50,000 jailed, including German nationals. Alarmed by what it sees as Ankara s deteriorating record on human rights, Germany has said it would restrict some arms sales to Turkey. It initially announced a freeze on major arms sales, but scaled that back, citing the fight against Islamic State. Ankara also refused to allow German lawmakers to visit their troops stationed at an air base in Turkey. This has led Germany to move troops involved in the campaign against Islamic State from Turkey s Incirlik base to Jordan. Turkey rejects the idea it is turning away from the West.  The good relations Turkey has developed with Russia are not an alternative to the good relations it has with the West, they complement each other,  Erdogan spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said. Erdogan told Reuters in an interview on Thursday that Turkey s position in NATO had not been weakened by the deal. Still, some fear Turkey might eventually find itself at the periphery of the alliance.   Germany is our most important supplier of weapons after the United States,  said Umit Pamir, a former Turkish diplomat. He said the suspension of arms sales, would  surely impact our defense systems . Erdogan has been on a push to improve ties with Moscow after Turkey s economy, particularly its tourism industry, was shaken by sanctions imposed by Russia after Turkey shot down one of its warplanes over Syria in late 2015. He is due to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin next week to discuss a plan agreed by their countries and Iran to reduce the fighting in Syria s northwestern Idlib province. Turkey supports rebels against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who is backed by Russia and Iran.  Erdogan plans to visit Iran next month. The two countries agreed in August to boost military cooperation when Iran s military chief, General Mohammad Baqeri, met Erdogan in a visit. The trip was the first by an Iranian military chief of staff to Turkey since the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran. While they back opposite sides in Syria, Ankara and Tehran have found some common ground over their opposition to the Kurdish independence referendum in Iraq. Both countries fear that an independent Kurdish state could inflame separatists tensions with their Kurdish minorities. Recent discord over the S-400 purchase did not signal a drastic break from NATO for Turkey, said Mustafa Kibaroglu, a professor of international relations at Turkey s MEF University. He said the West had over-reacted to the purchase.   I don t think there is any debate about Turkey leaving an alliance it has invested so much in,  Kibaroglu said.  Are we going to bring down U.S. planes with our S-400s?  he said.  There is no backbone to these comments, it is purely political polemics, and we are not the ones doing this. |

Article 12014 | Date: September 25, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: One week to cross a street: how IS pinned down Filipino soldiers in Marawi |
 | Content: MARAWI CITY, Philippines (Reuters) - With a grimace, Brigadier General Melquiades Ordiales of the Philippines 1st Marine Brigade recounted the painful gains made against Islamist militants in Marawi City.  It took us one week from this point to that point, to cross that street,  he said, casting his eyes to the other side of a two-lane road in the heart of the southern Philippines city, lined by three-storey buildings shattered by air strikes and the remaining walls riddled with bullet holes.  It was really very, very tough.  The grinding urban warfare that has destroyed much of the grandly named Sultan Omar Dianalan Boulevard shows just how much of a threat Islamic State is to the Philippines and potentially other countries in the Southeast Asian region.  But when the fighting started, Philippine authorities were unfazed. After the Islamic State-backed militants took over large parts of picturesque, lakeside Marawi in May, the country s defense minister, Delfin Lorenzana, predicted the entire conflict would be over in one week. Now, after four months of intense aerial bombardment and house-by-house battles, Philippine commanders believe they are in the final stages of the operation to oust the rebels from the city. In the past two weeks, military officials say they have conquered three militant bastions, including a mosque, and restricted about 60 remaining guerrillas to about 10 devastated city blocks in the business district. Patrols have been increased on the lake to prevent the supply of armaments and recruits to the holed-up militants. HIGH-POWERED WEAPONS Military officers who have skirmished for years with Islamic insurgents in the southern Philippines say the battle in Marawi has been more intense and difficult than earlier encounters.  The Islamic State militants are better armed, with high-powered weapons, night vision goggles, the latest sniper scopes and surveillance drones, said Captain Arnel Carandang,  of the Philippines Army First Scout Ranger Battalion. He said he has served for almost a decade in the remote jungles and mountains of Mindanao, the southern Philippines region that has long been wracked by insurgencies. Now, Carandang says, the military is in unfamiliar urban terrain. The militants have exploited the battlefield to their advantage and held off Philippines forces despite a 10-to-1 numerical advantage for the government troops. Borrowing heavily from Islamic State tactics in the Iraqi city of Mosul, they have surrounded themselves with hostages and used snipers and a network of tunnels. Marawi s underground drainage system and  rat holes  - crevices in the walls of high floors allowing access to adjacent buildings - have enabled the rebels to evade bombs and remain undetected, soldiers at the battlefront said.   We believe there have been some foreign terrorists that have been directing their operations that s why they are, how do I define this, really good,  said Carandang.  We have seen some cadavers of foreigners. Some are white, some are black and some tall people we guess are Asians (from outside the Philippines). We have been hearing in their transmissions some English speaking terrorists.  Hostages - many of them Christians - have been deployed to build improvised explosive devices, scavenge for food and weapons in the heat of battle and fight for the Islamist rebels, according to those who escaped.  When we were first moved to the mosque, there were more than 200 of us,  an escaped hostage, who asked not to be identified for safety reasons, told Reuters last week.  We gradually became fewer. People would go on errands but they wouldn t come back. They either escaped or died. By the time I left, there were only about 100 of us.  The account could not be verified, but military officials confirmed the man escaped from Marawi in early August. The hostage said the militants were excited by their successes in Marawi, speaking often of the advantages of urban warfare and talking about some of their next possible targets, including other cities in Mindanao and the Philippines capital Manila.  They said they could hide well in the cities. They can get civilians to become hostages and it s more difficult in the mountains with only the soldiers,  he said. Many of the fighters are young recruits, who are fanatical and accomplished fighters, the soldiers said.  By the way they move and their tactics, you can see they ve been trained,  said Colonel Jose Maria Cuerpo, deputy commander of the 103rd Brigade fighting in Marawi. For a description of how Mindanao youngsters are recruited by militants, click on [nL3N1KB1Z5] Much of this bloodshed could have been avoided, local political leaders told Reuters. Naguib Sinarimbo, a Muslim leader who has negotiated between the military and Islamic separatists for years, said he and other elders had urged the armed forces to allow militias and rival Islamist groups to take the lead in ousting the Islamic State militants. The groups were familiar with Marawi s terrain and, through family and clan links, could influence many of the fighters to lay down their weapons, they told the armed forces.  The proposal was rebuffed, Sinarimbo said. Air power, the military assured them, was the path to a quick win. Zia Alonto Adiong, a provincial politician, said the military also had doubts about the loyalty of some of the  political personalities  offering to provide their militias to push out the fighters. The result was a city in ruins, hundreds of thousands of residents displaced and  emboldened  Islamists, Sinarimbo said.  They proceeded with the aerial bombing but they didn t take the city,  Sinarimbo said.  The military lost authority.  In addition, the devastation of the city will play into  militants  hands, creating resentment and further radicalising many youngsters, he said. Marawi residents in evacuation centers or staying with relatives elsewhere are becoming increasingly frustrated, said Adiong, who is a spokesman for the local government s crisis management authority. Some residents were disappointed and angry that requests for a moratorium on bank loan repayments had not been met, he told Reuters.  Philippines central bank governor Nestor Espenilla told Reuters legislation would be needed for a debt moratorium and was being studied. Mindanao has long been marred by the decades of Muslim hostility to rule from Manila. After years fighting insurgent groups and then long negotiations, the government signed an agreement in 2014 to give Muslim majority areas in Mindanao autonomy. But the deal has been long delayed.    This part of the Philippines is fertile ground to plant violent extremism,  Adiong said.  There is a narrative of social injustice that is strong. Young people are fed up with the peace process and nothing concrete or sustainable has developed.   [The militants] use this as the basis to entice people, to get support of the local people.  In Marawi, some in the armed forces are hopeful that at least some militants will surrender and hand over between 45 to 50 civilian captives. Carandang, the Scout Rangers captain, however said indications were the rebels are preparing for a bloody final stand.  We are monitoring the enemy s transmissions and it s like during these final days they are being more fanatical,  he said.  Transmissions indicate they are preparing for suicide bombings.  An unused suicide vest was discovered this month in Marawi s Grand Mosque, a former stronghold of the militants, government sources told Reuters. Suicide attacks are rare in the Philippines despite decades of Islamist insurgency.  That s the difference between here and Syria and Iraq,  said Ordiales, the marine general.  It s almost the same war tactics and fighting tactics, the one thing that s not the same is the human bomb or the suicide bombing.   It hasn t happened, not yet. |

Article 12064 | Date: September 26, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Top U.S. general says exiting Iran nuclear pact would make future deals tough |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. military officer said on Tuesday Iran was complying with the pact curbing its nuclear program and warned that any American decision to walk away from it would make other nations less likely to enter into agreements with the United States. President Donald Trump is considering whether to withdraw from the 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and six world powers including the United States, calling the accord an  embarrassment.  Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that Iran was complying with its obligations under the nuclear deal, but had increased its activity in other areas.  Iran is projecting malign influence across the Middle East, threatening freedom of navigation, while supporting terrorist organizations in Syria, Iraq and Yemen,  Dunford said. The committee s top Democrat, Senator Jack Reed, asked Dunford whether walking away from the Iran nuclear pact would affect the U.S. ability to negotiate with North Korea or devise  a non-military solution toward Pyongyang.  It makes sense to me that our holding up agreements that we have signed, unless there is a material breech, would have an impact on others  willingness to sign agreements,  Dunford said during his reappointment hearing. Trump this year also announced he would withdraw the United States from the international Paris climate agreement and the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. U.S. officials, including senior military leaders, have said that the first option to deal with the threat posed by North Korea s nuclear and ballistic missile program is through diplomacy. The ambassadors to the United States from Britain, France, Germany and the European Union all strongly backed the nuclear agreement with Iran on Monday as long as Tehran continues to comply with the pact. If Trump does not recertify by Oct. 16 that Iran is in compliance with the agreement, Congress would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions on Tehran suspended under the accord. That would let Congress, controlled by Trump s fellow Republicans, effectively decide whether to kill the deal. Although congressional leaders have declined to say whether they would seek to reimpose sanctions, Republican lawmakers were united in their opposition to the deal reached by Democratic former President Barack Obama. A collapse of the deal could trigger a regional arms race and worsen Middle East tensions. Dunford said that while North Korea currently poses the most urgent threat, Russia presents the biggest threat in terms of overall military capability. Asked if he supported U.S. lethal aid to Russia s neighbor Ukraine, Dunford said he does and has  made that recommendation  within the administration. He said discussion of the issue has reached the White House, but did not say when a decision would be made. Ukraine has sought U.S. support against Russia since a pro-Western government took power following street protests in 2014, when the Kremlin-backed president fled the country. Russia seized Crimea from Ukraine the same year. Dunford also said the United States would not be able to  attain our objectives  in Afghanistan, where American forces have been deployed since 2001, without a change of behavior by neighboring Pakistan.  It is unacceptable that Pakistan provides sanctuary, and we ought to bring the full weight of the U.S. government and our coalition partners on Pakistan to ensure that they do not provide the sanctuary that they have provided historically to groups like Haqqani and the Taliban,  Dunford said. U.S. officials remain frustrated by what they term Pakistan s unwillingness to act against Islamist militant groups including the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network. The Trump administration is exploring whether to harden its approach toward Pakistan to crack down on militants launching strikes in Afghanistan. Pakistan argues that it has done a great deal to help the United States in tracking down militants, and says it has suffered hundreds of deaths in Islamist attacks in response to its crackdowns. |

Article 12173 | Date: September 27, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. healthcare bill's collapse escalates Republican infighting |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The failure by President Donald Trump and his fellow Republicans to dismantle Obamacare has infuriated the party’s conservative flank and is intensifying intra-party warfare ahead of the 2018 U.S. congressional elections.  Donors and activists upset by the collapse of the latest Senate healthcare bill said it hardened their determination to back conservative candidates in next year’s elections, even if that means ousting Republican incumbents. “I am fed up. I’m beyond frustrated,” said Mica Mosbacher, a Houston-based Republican fundraiser, who added she was “extremely disappointed in Ted Cruz,” a Republican U.S. senator from Texas who had threatened to oppose the latest healthcare bill because he wanted to see changes. Texas is scheduled to hold the first nominating primary of the midterm elections in March 2018.  Trump vowed during the 2016 election campaign to scrap the 2010 Affordable Care Act, former Democratic President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement, which Republicans see as a costly government overreach. Democrats say it has extended health insurance to millions. The latest bill to overturn Obamacare failed on Tuesday after three Senate Republicans, including moderate Susan Collins and conservative Rand Paul, said they could not support it. Republicans narrowly control the chamber by 52-48.  In November 2018, all 435 seats of the U.S. House of Representatives and 33 seats in the Senate will be up for election. In the Senate, that includes 23 Democrats and eight Republicans, with several in both parties in fights expected to be competitive. If a large number of Republicans are forced to defend their seats against challengers from their own party in primary fights, Democrats will seek to exploit weakened candidates in the general election in their effort to wrest control of the House and Senate from Republicans. A shift of either chamber into Democratic hands would make it even more difficult for Trump to pass his agenda of tax reform, toughening immigration laws and rolling back Obamacare. Republicans have not delivered a significant legislative win on any topic since Trump took office in January.  Mosbacher said she was “leaning toward supporting” Cruz’s primary opponent, Stefano de Stefano, even though she served as fundraiser for the incumbent’s 2012 campaign. Whoever prevails in that fight would likely face Beto O’Rourke, a well-funded Democrat, in the general election. Texas last elected a Democrat to the Senate in 1988. The conservative group Club For Growth has already begun interviewing Republican primary challengers it will consider backing next year.  “We’ll continue to push for full repeal of Obamacare, and we’re disappointed Republicans have been unable to deliver on their seven-year promise,” said Rachael Slobodien, a spokeswoman for Club for Growth. Club for Growth is not alone in its frustration over the defeat of the Obamacare repeal effort. David Bozell, president of ForAmerica, a conservative grassroots organization, said incumbents who failed to line up solidly behind repeal had “shown some true colors” and in doing so, were inviting primary fights for their party’s nomination. Republican Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Dean Heller of Nevada are top targets for conservative groups. Conservative Kelli Ward has already announced her candidacy challenging Flake, and is seeking to amass support as a more conservative option.  Dave Tamasi, a Republican lobbyist and fundraiser, said he thought it was too soon to know if the healthcare failure would hurt Republicans. “Opponents may try to use today or the failure to pass a repeal of the Affordable Care Act to give their candidacy a little bit of a push. The question is can that fuel today sustain itself over the long term of an election cycle,” he said. So far, Trump has been hedging his bets on the Republican primaries. But many of his allies are already backing conservative primary challengers. Trump has blasted Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell over Congress’ inaction. Such criticisms could help turn next year’s elections into a referendum on congressional incumbents, rather than on the president himself.  “I think we are entering an era of more primary challenges in general, The disappointment by activists over the inability for Republicans to repeal Obamacare only adds fuel to this fire,” said Craig Robinson, former political director of the Iowa Republican Party. |

Article 12445 | Date: September 29, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Talks on future EU-UK ties before divorce settled would weaken EU: Macron |
 | Content: TALLINN (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron said on Friday the European Union would be weakened if it agreed to discuss its future trading relationship with Britain before Brexit divorce terms are settled.  If we accept speaking about life after (Brexit) we will open 27 debates on the future life that are profoundly weakening for the EU. That s why the chosen method is the good one,  Macron said when asked why the EU did not soften a negotiating approach that has frustrated London. |

Article 12644 | Date: October 2, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: State crackdown fuels independence push in Anglophone Cameroon |
 | Content: DAKAR (Reuters) - A once-fringe separatist movement in Cameroon s Anglophone regions is gaining ground after a year of state repression that has undermined moderate voices and raised concerns the majority French-speaking nation may face a prolonged period of violence. Soldiers shot dead at least eight people and wounded others in the two English-speaking regions on Sunday, the anniversary of Anglophone Cameroon s independence from Britain. Amnesty International said on Monday at least 17 people had died in the clashes. The growing influence of the separatists, who include armed radical elements, is one of the most serious threats to stability in the central African oil producer since President Paul Biya took power 35 years ago.   Last year, separatists couldn t rally people on the streets. But people have seen family members arrested and killed, and they have switched over,  said Tapang Ivo Tanku, an Anglophone activist based in the United States. Like many moderates who say they are marginalized by Biya s Francophone-dominated government, Tanku has campaigned for a peaceful solution: a two-state federation - one French speaking, the other Anglophone - under one president.  I am in the minority now,  he told Reuters from New York.   The strife began in November, when English-speaking teachers and lawyers in the Northwest and Southwest regions, frustrated with having to work in French, took to the streets calling for reforms and greater autonomy. Six people were killed in those protests, and in the months that followed, the government deployed thousands of police and elite soldiers, implemented a blanket internet blackout and arrested dozens of activists, dubbing them  terrorists . The thousands who protested on Sunday around the country were no longer calling for reform, but for a separate state for Cameroon s nearly five million English speakers.  We told them our problems. They responded with force, killing us,  said a young student in Bamenda, one of the largest Anglophone cities.  We need our own country.           The true size and influence of the movement remains hard to gauge. Many leaders are in jail or exile, and it s unclear how strong alliances are between a multitude of factions with competing visions of how to achieve their goals. Few analysts believe a split is imminent.  There is no doubt the separatists  popularity and ability to stir turmoil has grown, however. Separatists told Reuters that they were responsible for an improvised bomb that last month wounded three policemen in Bamenda.   Nothing great can be achieved by using verbal excesses, street violence and defying authority. Lasting solutions to problems can be found only through peaceful dialogue,  Biya said in a statement on Twitter following Sunday s violence. An uprising by Biafran separatists in neighboring Nigeria in the 1960s sparked a civil war that killed around 1 million.   The roots of the divisions go back a century to the League of Nations  decision to split the former German colony of Kamerun between the allied French and British victors at the end of World War One.  The French Cameroons gained their independence in 1960 and the British Cameroons voted in 1961 to reunite with them under a federal government. The federation was abandoned a decade later, however, after a referendum most Anglophones considered a sham. A separatist movement existed for decades underground, with  activists sometimes communicating by passing notes to bus drivers going through different towns. It simmered but never gained widespread popular support - until now.  Southern Cameroons political activist Mark Bareta said government arrests of key organizers in January and February have pushed independent separatist coalitions, many of which are run by diaspora Cameroonians, together to form the Southern Cameroons Ambazonia Consortium United Front (SCACUF).  SCACUF and other groups are busily laying the groundwork for a new state, coordinating protests, gaining support on the ground, and - in some cases - orchestrating violent attacks.  They have printed thousands of light blue passports for Ambazonia - the Anglophones  aspirational independent homeland - designed a currency and written a national anthem, five members told Reuters. In May, they set up their own satellite television network, the Southern Cameroons Broadcasting Corporation, which reaches up to 500,000 people, said SCBC board member Derric Ndim.  Its satellite transmission is not affected by government-enforced internet cuts, he said.    We are working to make a new country, and we are ready,  said Nigeria-based Julius Ayuk Tabe, chairman of the Governing Council of Ambazonia, which is spearheading the movement.  The cries of the people are getting louder. |

Article 12680 | Date: October 2, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Saudi women can drive at last but some say price is silence |
 | Content: RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabian women were given the right to drive last week after nearly three decades of campaigning, but some activists say that breakthrough has come with a price: their silence. While the royal decree ending the ban on women driving has been hailed as proof of a new progressive trend in the deeply conservative Muslim kingdom, some women say they have been cowed into not speaking about it - a charge the government denies. Four women who previously participated in protests against the ban told Reuters they had received phone calls instructing them not to comment on the decree. Two women said around 25 activists had received such calls. As Saudi Arabia pushes through reforms over the objections of conservatives, the leadership is trying to modernize without  losing the support of its traditional base. Some Islamist clerics seen by the government as dabbling in politics have been detained after an apparent crackdown on potential opponents of the kingdom s rulers last month which now appears to have paved the way for lifting the driving ban. Activists and analysts say the government is also keen to avoid rewarding activism, which is forbidden in the absolute monarchy, and seems determined not to antagonize religious sensitivities. But seemingly inviolable Saudi norms are being turned on their head, with some religious clerics who supported policies such as bans on women driving and gender mixing now apparently changing their minds.   The changes suggest a possible shift in the power balance toward the Al Saud ruling family away from the Wahhabi clerical establishment. In the first protest against the driving ban, in 1990, 47 women drove around central Riyadh for nearly an hour until they were detained by the religious police, then fired from their jobs and barred from traveling. One participant, a university professor now in her 60s, recalls that act of defiance which sparked a new era in the Saudi women s rights movement.  On the first loop, we were not caught. But the second time, we were caught. I think somebody called. I remember one man, he was in front of us in his car. He went like this,  she said, wagging her finger.  That meant he didn t want us to drive.  More protests followed, but the government has not acknowledged the activists  efforts since ending the ban.  Activists who said they had received phone calls ordering them to remain silent spoke on the condition of anonymity, fearing reprisals.  He was very straightforward. He said you are ordered not to comment on the women driving issue or procedures will be taken against you. You are held accountable for anything posted after this call,  one of the callers said. Another woman, Tamador al-Yami, apologized on Twitter for being unable to comment  for reasons beyond my control .  Everybody knows.. everybody who follows.. we don t need to say it out loud :)  she wrote.  & it doesn t matter, what matters is the win, and we won . The government says the allegations are false and cites women who have spoken out, with op-eds in the New York Times and CNN.  No one has been censored or warned about expressing their views,  an Information Ministry statement said.  Saudi Arabia welcomes both the enormous interest and contributions to the debate, especially those from our own citizens.  Ending the driving ban is part of the kingdom s Vision 2030 reform program aimed at diversifying the economy away from oil and opening up Saudis  cloistered lifestyles. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, 32, is the face of that change. Many young Saudis regard his recent ascent to power as proof their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked women s progress. Yet the crown prince has been noticeably absent from the rollout of the new driving policy, which was presented to the media in Washington rather than Riyadh. That may reflect the riskiness of the move, which was welcomed by many but met with confusion and outrage by others. Saudi media has tagged news about the ban:  The king wins with women driving . Police however issued two arrest warrants over the weekend for men who posted threats against women drivers.   Activist Hala al-Dosari, who lives in Boston, said lifting the ban had also been intended to silence women activists.  The monarchy wants to be central for the Saudi state inside and outside as the owners of any reform. They are not willing to have their position contested,  she said.  How can they convince the world they are the patrons of modernization when the women of Saudi Arabia are challenging those notions?  Eman al-Nafjan, who participated in a driving protest in 2011, said she was relieved the ban had been lifted but frustrated that the role of women activists had been overlooked.  Were our efforts the reason the ban was lifted? Or was it a decision that had been made regardless of our struggles?  she wrote the day after the royal decree. The professor who took part in the 1990 protest said her family had not expressed strong opinions about her activism all those years ago, but one relative now thinks she is a celebrity.  My niece thinks I m someone special,  she said.  She says,  Oh, auntie! What you did! |

Article 12708 | Date: October 2, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Britain frustrated by slow pace of Brexit talks: finance minister |
 | Content: MANCHESTER, England (Reuters) - Prime Minister Theresa May s top ministers are all frustrated by the slow pace of Brexit negotiations, but her team owes her its loyalty as she negotiates Britain s departure from the European Union, finance minister Philip Hammond said on Monday. At the Conservative Party s conference in Manchester, northern England, Hammond played down the importance of four new red lines set down by foreign minister Boris Johnson in a British newspaper that underlined the rifts in cabinet.  We re all frustrated by the slow progress that we ve made over the last few months with the European Union negotiations, that s why the prime minister went to Florence 10 days ago and made a key speech which was designed specifically to unstick the logjam in the negotiations and move them forward,  he told ITV television.   Boris  position on these issues are well known. I back the prime minister in what is a very complex and delicate negotiation with our European Union partners to deliver Britain s exit in the way the British people have mandated us to do. |

Article 12777 | Date: October 3, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: EU's diplomatic back channel in Pyongyang goes cold |
 | Content: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - While European powers France and Britain are lobbying Washington to cool tensions since North Korea s most powerful nuclear test a month ago, EU nations with embassies in Pyongyang are directly pressing the North Koreans.   A group of seven European Union countries - the Czech Republic, Sweden, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, as well as Britain and Germany - held at least two formal meetings with North Korean officials in Pyongyang in September, three EU diplomats said.  But they felt frustrated because the higher-level access that they had obtained in Pyongyang last year had fallen away, with only medium-ranking foreign ministry officials now attending the meetings, the diplomats said.  There was a sense that we weren t really getting anywhere because they sent these department heads,  said a Brussels-based diplomat who had been briefed on the meetings, which were described as  very serious  in atmosphere and tone.   They want to talk to the United States.  The White House has ruled out such talks, with President Donald Trump telling Secretary of State Rex Tillerson he would be  wasting his time  negotiating with the North Koreans. The United States has no embassy in Pyongyang and relies on Sweden, the so-called U.S. protecting power there, to do consular work, especially when Westerners get into trouble.  In contrast to recent meetings, when North Korean officials met EU envoys in the Czech Republic s embassy in 2016 to discuss issues including cultural programs and regional security, a deputy foreign minister would attend, one EU diplomat said.  For the small club of European Union governments with embassies in North Korea, that reflects Pyongyang s anger at the EU s gradually expanding sanctions that go beyond those agreed by the United Nations Security Council.  It could have repercussions for broader EU efforts to help mediate in the nuclear crisis, according to the EU diplomats briefed by their colleagues in Pyongyang, as the bloc prepares more measures against North Korea. EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini, who chaired talks on the historic 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, says the bloc is ready to mediate in any talks aimed at freezing North Korea s missile and nuclear weapons programs. But at the same time, the European Union wants an oil embargo on Pyongyang that it hopes other countries will follow.  Some EU governments are pushing to cancel North Korean work permits in Poland and other eastern European countries because EU officials believe workers  salaries are deposited in bank accounts controlled by the regime in Pyongyang.  The North Koreans are starting to see the EU as a U.S. puppet, but we stress that we are an honest broker,  said a second EU diplomat.  Links with the EU embassies go back years. Communist Czechoslovakia was a leading supplier of heavy machinery to North Korea. As a Soviet satellite, Czechoslovakia established diplomatic ties with North Korea in 1948, along with Poland and Romania.  The seven European embassies in Pyongyang are among only 24 foreign missions there, including Russia, China and Cuba. The EU s status as a potential broker relies, in part, on Sweden, which was the first Western European nation to establish diplomatic relations with the North in 1973. Sweden is a member of the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission, which was set up to oversee the 1953 armistice between North and South Korea, undertake inspections, observe military exercises and promote trust between the two sides. Czechoslovakia was also a member of the Neutral Nations Supervisory Commission until the early 1990s.  Sweden played a key role in the release of Canadian pastor Hyeon Soo Lim and of U.S. student Otto Warmbier earlier this year. But Sweden has strongly backed the EU sanctions.  The seven European embassies are limited in what they can say because North Korean staff, required by the government to work at the EU embassies, are expected to double as informants for Pyongyang, the diplomats said.  Sanctions and pressure ... Sadly, we don t have anything else,  said an EU diplomat in Brussels. The joint meetings with the North Koreans, usually held at a single European mission, have been focused on the release of imprisoned Westerners, not big diplomatic initiatives. But as efforts intensify to calm U.S. and North Korean threats of war, they could still prove an important channel to pass messages between Pyongyang and Washington.  In the best case, we could perhaps facilitate an opening of a diplomatic track between the North Koreans and the United States,  said Carl Bildt, a former Swedish prime minister and foreign minister from 2006 to 2014. Bildt said anything the EU does must be kept secret.  If the EU does something along these lines, the first thing the EU should do is not to talk about it. Talking about it is a pretty good way to ensure that one can t do it,  he said. Mathieu Duchatel, a North Korea expert at the European Council on Foreign Relations, a think-tank that Bildt also now helps oversee, said the European Union could chair talks between China and the United States. Washington and Pyongyang have no hotlines to prevent crises from spinning out of control and it is not clear what Beijing s reaction would be if the United States intercepted a North Korean missile test, Duchatel said. For now, Paris is in contact with White House National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster and White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, diplomats said, noting French President Emmanuel Macron s budding relationship with U.S. President Donald Trump.  Lieutenant General McMaster and Kelly, a retired four-star Marine Corps general, have a soft spot for France born of their admiration for the French military, the diplomats said. It is unclear if that translates into a direct impact on Trump s thinking on North Korea, European diplomats said.  They are trying to normalize Trump, but I don t think Trump can be normalized,  said a senior French diplomat.  To get him to listen, heads of state need to speak to him directly.  Macron, who has ruled out a military option, has said he believes he could convince Trump to avoid armed intervention. Macron s position is to keep repeating the mantra of patience and dialogue to Trump, diplomats said. |

Article 12781 | Date: October 3, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Trade in focus at hearing for Trump's nominee as ambassador to India |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. senators stressed trade and other business issues when questioning President Donald Trump s nominee to be U.S. ambassador to India at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday, while expressing strong support for posting him to New Delhi.    Trump nominated Kenneth Juster as ambassador to India on Sept. 1. The 64-year-old, an economic adviser in his administration, also served as under secretary of Commerce under former Republican President George W. Bush. Known as an expert on India, Juster was praised by both Trump s fellow Republicans, who control Congress, and Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, although they raised some of the issues complicating relations. Trump, who campaigned on an  America First  platform, has forcefully expressed his displeasure with the growing U.S. trade deficit with India. He has also called for reform of the H1B visa system that has benefited Indian tech firms. Indian officials reject suggestions that Prime Minister Narendra Modi s  Make in India  platform is protectionist and complain in turn about U.S. regulations on products such as generic drugs and fruit. Senator Bob Corker, the panel s chairman, said he was frustrated with the slow pace of India s economic reforms. Republican Senator Rob Portman, a former U.S. Trade Representative, struck a similar note, saying he has  deep concerns  about market access in India for some U.S. products and services.  We need to continue pressing forward, make sure that India adheres to its WTO (World Trade Organization) obligations and that we can push the range of economic issues,  Portman said. Senator Ben Cardin, the panel s top Democrat, said India had not been as strong as it could have been in enforcing sanctions laws. Juster said he would make business issues a priority in New Delhi, but also promised to work with New Delhi on issues such as North Korea s pursuit of nuclear weapons, counter terrorism and working with India toward security in Afghanistan. U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis held talks in India last week, seeking India s greater involvement in helping stabilize Afghanistan, as the Trump administration steps up pressure on Pakistan to do more against militants operating from its soil. Democratic Senator Chris Coons asked Juster about H1B visas, but he said he was not in a position to characterize the administration s current position. The U.S. mission in India processes more visas than any other. A vote on Juster s confirmation has not been scheduled.  Corker called him  extraordinarily well-qualified,  and said he hoped he would be confirmed quickly. Cardin praised his  incredible credentials. |

Article 13070 | Date: October 6, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. deaths in Niger highlight Africa military mission creep |
 | Content: NAIROBI/ABIDJAN (Reuters) - U.S. special forces soldiers were with their counterparts from Niger on Wednesday in the West African nation s volatile southwest, a growing hot-bed of jihadist violence, when the report came in of a raid nearby. The assailants were believed to be led by Dondou Chefou, a lieutenant in a new group operating along the Mali-Niger border and called Islamic State in the Greater Sahara. A decision was soon taken to pursue them. The mixed force was ambushed by fighters on dozens of vehicles and motorcycles. Under heavy fire, U.S. troops called in French fighter jets for air support, but the firefight was at such close quarters that the planes could not engage and were instead left circling overhead as a deterrant.  The version of events, as told by two Nigerien and two Western sources briefed on the incident, shines a light on Washington s increasingly aggressive Special Forces-led counter-terrorism strategy in Africa and its risk of casualties.  Four U.S. soldiers died in the firefight, killed in a country where most Americans were unaware that their army is deployed but where Washington has steadily grown its presence. One soldier s body was only recovered two days later. At least four Nigeriens were also killed and, according to one Niger security source, militants seized four vehicles in the ambush. French helicopters, scrambled after the U.S. call for help, evacuated several soldiers wounded in the clash. A diplomat with knowledge of the incident said French officials were frustrated by the U.S. troops  actions, saying they had acted on only limited intelligence and without contingency plans in place.  After initially offering only scant details of what happened in the Nigerien desert on Wednesday, the U.S. military s Africa Command said on Friday the soldiers were in the area to establish relations with local leaders.   It was not meant to be an engagement with the enemy,  Africom spokesman Colonel Mark Cheadle told reporters.  The threats at the time were deemed to be unlikely, so there was no overhead armed air cover during the engagement.   U.S. forces do not have a direct combat mission in Niger, but their assistance to its army does include intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance in their efforts to target violent extremist organizations. U.S. military deployments are on the rise in Africa.  In May, a U.S. Navy Seal killed in a raid on an al Shabaab militant compound in Somalia became the first U.S. combat death in Africa since the 1993  Black Hawk Down  disaster in Mogadishu. In Niger, Washington has deployed around 800 soldiers, runs a drone base in the capital Niamey, and is building a second in Agadez at a cost of around $100 million. U.S. Special Forces help local troops develop counter-terrorism skills to tackle threats from al Qaeda-linked groups, Nigeria s Boko Haram and Islamists who have pledged allegiance to Islamic State.   It s a pretty broad mission with the government of Niger in order to increase their capability to stand alone and to prosecute violent extremists,  the U.S. military s Joint Staff Director, Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie, said on Thursday. Washington has long seen the Sahel as a security threat but involvement increased in the wake of a 2012 occupation of northern Mali by Islamist militants.  France led an offensive against the Islamists a year later, and the U.S. government now provides logistical and intelligence support to a 4,000-troop French counter-terrorism operation in the region.  The U.S. military organizes an annual, high-profile U.S. drill as well as longer-term, more discreet training of regional forces. But experts say U.S. involvement in the fight does not stop there.   It is likely that there are other operations going on aside from just the training operations,  said Andrew Lebovich, a visiting fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. In missions run out of a base in the northern Niger town of Arlit and others like the one that led to the ambush of U.S. troops, sources say they have helped local troops and intelligence agents make several arrests.   It is discreet but they are there,  a Nigerien security source told Reuters. Analysts are awaiting the political fallout of Wednesday s ambush with some speculating it may spark a reversal of the U.S. stance on a new regional force - known as the G5 Sahel - which France is pushing but which Washington is cool on. Others however like Ahmedou Ould Abdallah, a former top United Nations official in West Africa and Somalia, recall with concern the American pullout following the  Black Hawk Down  incident. Eighteen U.S. soldiers were killed when Somali militia shot down two helicopters in Mogadishu.  In Somalia, they over-reacted and withdrew their troops ... My worry is that after this attack they will also over-react. Trump might just say  Why should we die for this?  I hope they don t. |

Article 13158 | Date: October 7, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump says open to temporary healthcare reform deal with Democrats |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday he would be open to cutting a one-year or two-year deal with Democratic rivals as a way to kick-start reform of the nation’s healthcare system, a key campaign pledge made by Trump and the Republican Party. Republicans fell short several times this year in their drive to repeal former President Barack Obama’s signature domestic legislation, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, a promise the party has campaigned on for seven years. Trump has been frustrated by the failure, openly taunting Republicans as “total quitters” and “fools” this summer over their inability in the Senate to replace Obamacare. “If we made a temporary deal, I think it would be a great thing for people, but it’s really up to them (Democrats),” Trump told reporters at the White House. “So if we could do a one-year deal or two-year deal as a temporary measure, you’ll have block granting ultimately to the states, which is what Republicans want,” Trump said. Earlier on Saturday Trump said he had called Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer to gauge interest in working on what he called a “great” healthcare bill to replace Obamacare. “I called Chuck Schumer yesterday to see if the Dems want to do a great HealthCare Bill,” Trump wrote on Twitter earlier on Saturday. “ObamaCare is badly broken, big premiums. Who knows!” Axios first reported Trump’s call to Schumer on Friday. Schumer said Trump had told him during the phone call on Friday that he wanted to try again to repeal and replace Obamacare. “I told the president that’s off the table,” Schumer said in a statement. “If he wants to work together to improve the existing health care system, we Democrats are open to his suggestions.” Schumer pointed to bipartisan efforts by Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Democratic Senator Patty Murray to repair Obamacare as “a good place to start.” Alexander pulled out of the talks last month as a new Republican bill to repeal Obamacare gained momentum. After that bill collapsed, Alexander said he would again consult with Murray. Although Democrats have been mostly united against Trump’s agenda, there is a precedent for a bipartisan deal. Last month, Trump sided with Democrats in a surprising debt limit deal that blindsided Republicans and left conservative groups aghast. But there are still wide policy differences between Democrats and Trump. His administration on Friday undermined requirements under Obamacare that employers provide insurance to cover women’s birth control. A new rule will allow businesses or non-profit organizations to lodge religious or moral objections to obtain an exemption from the law’s mandate that employers provide contraceptives coverage in health insurance with no co-payment. A Democratic aide said the Trump administration would have to abandon such efforts before it could reach a healthcare deal with Republicans. “Particularly after the birth control decision yesterday, the administration has to stop sabotaging the law before anything real can happen,” the aide said on condition of anonymity. |

Article 13260 | Date: October 9, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump-Corker spat complicates drive for tax reform in U.S. Senate |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A public feud between President Donald Trump and influential fellow Republican Bob Corker could narrow the path for a tax overhaul in the U.S. Senate, where a Republican go-it-alone effort is already showing signs of disunity.  Days after the Republican-controlled Congress took important steps toward advancing tax legislation, Trump’s Twitter attacks on Senator Corker over the weekend threatened to further alienate the president from other key Republicans such as Senator John McCain, whose “No” vote was pivotal in the party’s failure to repeal Obamacare in July. Although a foreign policy specialist, Corker is also a key player in the tax debate.  He helped the Senate move closer to legislation by agreeing to a budget resolution that would allow tax reforms to reduce government revenue by up to $1.5 trillion over a decade, but he wants savings elsewhere and has vowed not to vote for a tax package that adds to the federal deficit.  Republicans hope Corker will ultimately vote for tax reform in hopes of boosting economic growth. But Trump’s tweets do not help, especially now that Corker has decided against seeking re-election next year and is free to vote whichever way he wants without having to face voters again.  Republicans are desperate to push through tax reform, seeing it as their last good chance to get a major legislative victory in the first year since 2006 that the party has controlled the White House and both chambers of Congress.  Trump and top Republican lawmakers have unveiled a plan to slash taxes for businesses and individuals, the first comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. tax code since 1986. They hope to get it done by January. The tax push has been dogged by delays and distractions such as Trump’s criticisms of his own party’s leaders, including Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan. The latest incident erupted on Sunday when Trump lashed out at Corker in a series of derisive tweets saying the lawmaker had “begged” him for his endorsement ahead of the midterm election next year and announced his retirement after being turned down. Corker replied by describing the White House as an adult day care center, and told the New York Times that Trump risks setting the country on the path to “World War Three”. The spat complicates things for Republicans as they try to move tax legislation through the Senate, which they control by  a slim 52-48 margin. Most Democrats oppose the plan, and Republicans cannot pass it if they lose support from more than two lawmakers of their own party.  “This is a delicate balance,” said Stephen Moore, a fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation who helped write Trump’s campaign tax plan. “It all comes down to whether you can get 50 votes in the Senate. Right now, by my count, they’re at about 48. A few votes short.”  Divisions have emerged over proposals to repeal the federal inheritance tax and a popular deduction for state and local taxes. Senate Republican Rand Paul has expressed unhappiness over reports that Trump’s tax plan could raise taxes on some middle-class Americans.    Republicans need to keep Corker on board and prevent him from becoming a maverick like McCain, known for his sharply independent streak.   “Bob Corker, at this point, is as free as John McCain is to do what he thinks is right,” said William Galston, who was a domestic policy adviser to former President Bill Clinton.  Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist with close ties to Congress and the White House, said he thinks most Republican senators will get in line despite their concerns over Trump’s treatment of their colleagues.  “While it may really bother other Senate Republicans and it’s unnerving that one of their own is being attacked, most aren’t retiring and know they must still work with the White House or answer to frustrated voters,” Bonjean said. |

Article 13361 | Date: October 10, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: NFL owners to mull anthem rules as Trump ups protest criticism |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - NFL team owners will consider requiring football players to stand for the U.S. national anthem after President Donald Trump on Tuesday suggested using tax laws to penalize the league for players who kneel in protest of racial injustice. Trump, a Republican, escalated his feud with the National Football League in a Twitter post asking if the league should get tax breaks while some athletes kneel in protest when the “Star-Spangled Banner” is played at the start of each game. “Why is the NFL getting massive tax breaks while at the same time disrespecting our Anthem, Flag and Country? Change tax law!” Trump wrote on Twitter. The world’s top-grossing sports league gave up its tax-free status two years ago. Its owners are preparing to address the anthem issue at their fall meeting in New York Oct. 17-18, NFL chief spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters on a conference call on Tuesday. “Everyone at this point is frustrated by the situation,” Lockhart said. “The commissioner and the owners do want the players to stand. We think it is an important part of the game.” The protests, in a league where African-Americans make up the majority of players, have continued through the season, with some players taking a knee when the anthem is played and others standing arm-in-arm in solidarity. Current policy calls for players to stand for the anthem and face the flag, but no player has been disciplined for a protest, Lockhart said. “We need to move past this controversy, and we want to do that together with our players,” NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell wrote in a memo to team owners. The White House supported the idea of asking players to stand, said spokeswoman Sarah Sanders. “We are glad to see the NFL taking positive steps in that direction,” she said at a news briefing. Asked to explain Trump’s comment on the NFL and taxes, Sanders said, “The federal tax law doesn’t apply here, but certainly we know that they receive tax subsidies on a variety of different levels.” The NFL Players Association, when asked for a reaction to possible changes to anthem rules, said in an email “we do not have a response at this time.” Trump last month called on NFL team owners to fire players who kneel during the anthem to protest police violence against black Americans. Critics contend Trump is fanning the controversy to distract from issues including devastation in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, tensions with North Korea and difficulties in pushing healthcare and tax overhauls through the U.S. Congress. Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, speaking on KRLD-FM in Dallas on Tuesday, reiterated his stance that if any of his players chose to demonstrate during the anthem, they would not play. “If you do not honor and stand for the flag in the way that a lot of our fans feel that you should ... if that’s not the case, then you won’t play,” said Jones. “That’s nothing new as far as that being my wish or the way I want the Cowboys. As far as whether or not I will basically institute or do what I said I would just say. ... I would ask anybody to look at my record relative to what I say I’m going to do.” Vice President Mike Pence walked out of a NFL game on Sunday after some players knelt, an action some critics called a publicity stunt. Trump won the presidency with less support from black voters than any other president in at least four decades. Trump has squared off against the NFL before, having owned a team in the upstart United States Football League in the 1980s. That league folded in 1985 after an antitrust lawsuit against the NFL failed. Trump has refused to disclose his own tax history, departing from a practice of U.S. presidents going back more than 40 years. Trump has said nobody cares about his tax returns, but critics say they could show conflicts of interest. |

Article 13517 | Date: October 11, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Mattis looking to see if changes need to be made after Niger ambush |
 | Content: TAMPA, Fla. (Reuters) - Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said on Wednesday that the military was looking into what changes, if any, should be made after an ambush in Niger killed four U.S. soldiers last week. The incident, which U.S. officials suspect was carried out by a local Islamic State affiliate, has thrown a spotlight on the U.S. counterterrorism mission in the West African country. Mattis, addressing the incident for the first time publicly, said the ambush had taken place in an area where  the enemy has not operated before  and that the patrol had been  hit hard.   He said French aircraft were overhead within 30 minutes and that he did not believe there was a delay in evacuating those wounded and killed, although he did not say how long it took to move them.  We will look at this and say was there something we have to adapt to now, should we have been in a better stance, you know, autopsy, you always find a lot out in them,  Mattis told reporters on board a military plane.  We re not complacent, we re going to do better,  he added.  From initial accounts, the 40-member patrol, which included about a dozen U.S. troops, came under a swift attack by militants riding in a dozen vehicles and on about 20 motorcycles. At least four Nigeriens were also killed and, according to one Niger security source, militants seized four vehicles in the ambush. A diplomat with knowledge of the incident said French officials were frustrated by the U.S. troops  actions, saying they had acted on only limited intelligence and without contingency plans in place. U.S. forces do not have a direct combat mission in Niger, but their assistance to its army includes intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance in their efforts to target violent extremist organizations. |

Article 13549 | Date: October 11, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Turkey's Erdogan gets warm welcome in mainly Muslim Serbian town |
 | Content: NOVI PAZAR, Serbia (Reuters) - Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan received a rapturous welcome on Wednesday during a visit to the Serbian town of Novi Pazar, capital of the Muslim majority Sandzak region that has seen mass emigration to Turkey since the violent breakup of Yugoslavia. Erdogan, on a two-day visit to Serbia, hopes to boost Turkey s economic and cultural influence in the Balkan region, which was part of the Ottoman empire for centuries, at a time of increased tensions with the European Union and United States.  We have special relations with this region. Your happiness is our happiness, your pain is our pain,  Erdogan told more than 10,000 people gathered in front of the municipality building.   Sandzak is the biggest bridge linking us with our brothers in Serbia,  he said, with Serbia s President Aleksandar Vucic standing close by.  Turkish influence is already strong among fellow Muslims in Bosnia, Albania and Kosovo, but mainly Orthodox Christian Serbia is traditionally much closer to Russia. However, Belgrade and Ankara, which both want to join the EU but are frustrated by the slow pace of progress, are keen to increase bilateral trade. Erdogan said Turkey would finance the construction of a road linking Sandzak with the Bosnian capital Sarajevo, reconstruct an Ottoman-era hammam and build a bridge in Novi Pazar. In Belgrade on Tuesday, Erdogan pledged gas and Turkish investments for the Balkans and he signed deals with Vucic to expand a bilateral free trade agreement.  In Novi Pazar, local people waved Turkish flags and the green and blue flags of Serbia s Muslim community, and chanted Allahu Akbar (God is greatest). A big banner read  Welcome Sultan  and was signed by  Ottoman grandchildren .  Erdogan is our nation s leader, Vucic is our state leader, this is the greatest day for us Muslims to have them both here,  Ismail Ismailovic, 28, from the nearby town of Tutin, farmer, sporting long beard and white embroidered Muslim skull cap. It was a far cry from the 1990s when Serbia and Turkey were sharply at odds in the conflicts that tore apart Yugoslavia. Turkey sees itself as the historic defender of Muslims across the Balkan region.  I know I am not going to be welcomed here like Erdogan is,  said Vucic, who was a firebrand Serbian nationalist during the wars of the 1990s but has turned strongly pro-EU.  But at least I can come out and say that I am working in your best interest. |

Article 13650 | Date: October 12, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Former leader of Germany's far-right kicks off new 'Blue Party' |
 | Content: BERLIN (Reuters) - Frauke Petry, the former co-leader of the far right Alternative for Germany (AfD), will unveil her new  Blue Party  on Friday, promising a  reasonable conservative  agenda that would appeal to a broad base of Germans, she told a newspaper group. Petry, a 42-year-old chemist, was for a time the most visible face of the AfD, helping to build the public appeal that saw it win 12.6 percent of the vote last month and become the first far right group in the German parliament since the 1960s. But although she has long espoused strong anti-immigrant views, she berated other leading figures in the AfD for holding positions too far outside the mainstream and making it impossible for the party to join a coalition government. During the months leading up to the election she took a lower profile role in campaigning, all but vanishing from TV screens as more radical figures became the party s public faces. She won a seat in parliament on the AfD s list last month, but quit the party the next day in a surprise announcement at its victory press conference, pledging to sit in parliament initially as an independent. She told RND newspaper group in an interview published late on Thursday that she would hold a small initial event to announce her new Blue Party on Friday in her home state of Saxony in the former communist East. More rallies would follow around the country from November under the banner of  Blue Change  or  Blaue Wende , she said. Wende is the term widely used to describe the dramatic shift in German society after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.  Blue stands for conservative, but also liberal policies in Germany and in Europe,  she told RND, adding that her new group would seek to replicate the success of the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party of Chancellor Angela Merkel s conservatives, on a national level. The CSU, part of Merkel s conservative bloc in parliament, has taken a harder line than Merkel s own Christian Democratic Union over immigration, but fields candidates only in Bavaria, a state that accounts for 15 percent of Germany s population.   Every third German would like a reasonable, conservative political offering,  she said, adding that many frustrated voters had supported the pro-business Free Democrats, the AfD or  Merkel s CDU on Sept. 24 for lack of a better alternative. Petry said she had begun working on plans for her new party as early as August, after AfD members refused to accept her more moderate proposals at a party congress in Cologne. RND said German election authorities listed the new party as having been founded on Sept. 17, a week before the vote. Petry defended her decision to quit the AfD while keeping her seat won on its list, saying she would remain loyal to her voters.  The mandate doesn t belong to the party, even if it was won with party funds,  she said. The AfD is ostracized by all other parties, which refuse to work with it. None even wants to sit next to the AfD in parliament. |

Article 13743 | Date: October 13, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In a sudden flurry, Trump looks to deliver for his voters |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - For the moment, U.S. President Donald Trump is going it alone. After weeks of seeing his agenda imperiled by Republican divisions and infighting among his aides, Trump has been a whirl of activity this week, reasserting his campaign priorities and trying to deliver wins for his fervent but frustrated base of supporters. Trump took steps to dramatically undercut the Obamacare health system, sent notice he was willing to scuttle the nuclear deal with Iran, moved to roll back coal-plant limits, and again demanded a wall along the Mexican border.   And on social media the Republican president appeared to relish his feuds with the news media, senior Republicans in Congress, and National Football League players who have protested during the national anthem. In a sense, it was the vintage, freewheeling Trump: throwing red meat to his voter base, following his gut, and haranguing his critics. But by the end of the week, he had made more progress in undoing the policy accomplishments of his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, than he had in some time.  “Trump knows he has to make good on several of his campaign promises,” said Ford O’Connell, a Republican strategist. “The clock is ticking, Congress is useless and portions of his base are growing frustrated.” At the same time, there is still chaos and uncertainty in the White House, so much so much so that Trump’s chief of staff, John Kelly, took the unusual step of telling reporters that he was not resigning. Meanwhile, the job status of his secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, appears to remain tenuous.  The timing of some of Trump’s measures this week was driven by external deadlines, especially in the case of the Iran deal. And his administration has also been occupied by a spate of deadly hurricanes and the shooting spree in Las Vegas, which have hampered its ability to move forward on its policy agenda.  But Trump this week was also sending a clear message: that he plans on doing as much as he can without waiting for Congress to act.  “The president campaigned on a bold agenda, and Congress’s inaction won’t stop the administration’s tireless efforts to boost the economy, improve healthcare, and protect the American people,” said Raj Shah, the White House’s principal deputy press secretary.  When he sat in the Oval Office, Obama defiantly declared that he would circumvent a hostile Congress by using a “pen and a phone,” issuing executive orders where possible.  And when Trump ran for president last year, he frequently said that only he “alone” could fix the nation’s problems.  But once he took office, Trump attempted to follow the lead of Republicans on Capitol Hill, and he watched with dismay how little movement was made on priorities such as healthcare, immigration, and national security. Trump, too, remains bothered by another time he deferred to congressional Republicans and supported incumbent Senator Luther Strange in a divisive primary fight last month in Alabama.  Strange lost to Roy Moore, an archconservative backed by Trump’s former adviser, Steve Bannon, with many of Trump’s core supporters voting for Moore.   The loss came after Trump alarmed some conservatives by saying he could cut deals with Democratic congressional leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi to advance his agenda, particularly on providing relief from deportation for “Dreamers” - immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. That led to speculation that he was going to chart a more centrist course. But there was little of that talk this week after the White House released a series of hard-line immigration proposals that stand to threaten any bipartisan deal. Pelosi called the proposals “trash.” Trump, too, rejected the advice of Kelly, Tillerson, Defense Secretary James Mattis and other aides in decertifying the Iran nuclear deal, according to two administration officials, intent on staying true to his fierce criticism of the deal during the campaign.  Sam Nunberg, a former campaign aide to Trump, said Strange’s loss served as a reminder to Trump that he has to look after the interests of his political base.  “That was a big punch in the stomach,” Nunberg said, one that showed the president that “this is not a cult of personality. It’s about deliverables.” Those deliverables are the fulfillment of the campaign promises that Bannon once featured on a whiteboard in his White House office, said Nunberg, who added that Bannon’s shadow “still hovers over the West Wing.” Bannon has pledged to support primary challengers to Republican Senate incumbents in several states next year in a bid to unseat Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whom he blames for impeding Trump’s policy agenda. A Reuters/Ipsos poll released this week showed Trump’s approval slipping among the rural voters he so successfully courted in last year’s election. In September, 47 percent of people in rural areas approved of Trump while 47 percent disapproved, the poll found. That was down from Trump’s first four weeks in office, when 55 percent said they approved of the president while 39 percent disapproved. The poll found that Trump has lost support in rural areas among men, whites and people who never went to college. He lost support with rural Republicans and rural voters who supported him on Election Day. |

Article 13931 | Date: October 14, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Cyprus president to seek second five-year term in Jan '18 vote |
 | Content: NICOSIA (Reuters) - Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said on Saturday he planned to seek a second five-year term in elections scheduled for January 2018, pledging to pick up the pace of reunification talks which collapsed in acrimony in mid-2017. Anastasiades, 71, a conservative, was widely credited with leading a renewed bid to reunite Cyprus, split in a Turkish invasion in 1974 after a brief Greek-inspired coup.  Failure to reach a solution is not in the interests of either Greek or Turkish Cypriots, and naturally, not of Turkey either. I want to believe Turkey will see the benefits of a solution,  Anastasiades, who represents Greek Cypriots in peace negotiations, told supporters in Nicosia.  Peace talks collapsed in July after the sides failed to agree on the status of Turkish forces on the island, as well as intervention rights of Turkey in Cyprus stemming from a 1960 independence treaty.  Anastasiades has faced criticism at home for either granting too many concessions in talks, or of tactical errors which hampered prospects of a deal. The simmering conflict remains a source of tension between NATO allies Greece and Turkey and one of the obstacles Ankara has to face in its long-frustrated bid to join the European Union. A  historic opportunity  to end the decades-old conflict was missed, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres wrote in a report to the Security Council on Sept. 28. To date, there is no sign of the peace negotiations resuming.    Anastasiades is expected to run against at least three other contenders, including Nicolas Papadopoulos, son of late president Tassos Papadopoulos who rejected a United Nations reunification blueprint for Cyprus in 2004. Elections will be held on Jan. 28, with a runoff a week later if a single candidate does not muster a majority in the first round. The early days of Anastasiades s presidency in 2013 were marked by a financial meltdown triggered by the exposure of the island s banks to indebted Greece and fiscal slippage.  The island required a 10 billion euro ($11.8 billion) international bailout. contingent upon winding down one commercial bank and seizing deposits in a second. Cyprus made a successful exit from the programme in 2016. ($1 = 0.8459 euros) |

Article 13962 | Date: October 15, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Austria's conservatives show few qualms about teaming up with far right |
 | Content: VIENNA (Reuters) - With conservative leader Sebastian Kurz winning Austria s parliamentary elections on Sunday with around 32 percent of votes, many of his supporters see little reason to shy away from forming a government with the far right Freedom Party (FPO). Amid servings of sausages, beer and white wine spritzer, Kurz s acolytes at the People s Party (OVP) election celebrations sounded enthusiastic about working with the anti-immigration Freedom Party, which got around 26 percent, within a whisker of the Social Democrats.  OVP-FPO is better than anything else, even if it s not perfect,  said Kurz fan Florian Zierler, a 21-year-old software developer. Kurz said he would talk to everyone.  Freedom Party chief Heinz-Christian Strache is now as close as he has ever been to joining the national government. He has accused Kurz of stealing his policies ranging from tough anti-immigration policies to tax cuts for companies and reduced social services for refugees.   The economic program of the FPO is similar to that of the OVP but they (FPO) are still hammering foreigners hard in their statements and that s not in order,  Zierler said. Meanwhile at Freedom Party celebrations, its general secretary and strategist Herbert Kickl, 48, said the ball was now in the court of the conservatives and Social Democrats, sounding a confident note after one of the best election results for his party in its 60-year history.  For us it s not crucial whether we ll go into opposition or into government. The main factor for us is the position from which we can achieve the change that s needed.  Freedom Party supporter Andreas Weiss, enjoying a smoke-filled party looking out over Vienna with the parliament building in the foreground, echoed Kickl.  It actually doesn t matter who will be our coalition partner. Our demands must be realized,  he said. Five women in their 40s, dancing and singing at the FPO party, said they had no doubt their party would enter government with the OVP.  According to pollster SORA the biggest chunk of OVP voters, 40 percent, also want the FPO in government. Among FPO supporters, 60 percent want the OVP as a partner. Centrist coalitions between the Social Democrats and the conservatives have dominated Austrian politics since World War Two, but many are deeply frustrated with the lack of progress in tax, pension, education and administrative reform.  The reds (the Social Democrats) are so fossilized and encrusted,  said 79-year-old Heinrich Kohlmann, attending Kurz s party clad in traditional Austrian costume and clutching two glasses of beer. For him, the Freedom Party is the better partner for the changes he wants.   I hope that we can reduce the strength and power of Brussels,  Kohlmann said. Both Kurz and Strache have called for a slimmed-down European Union and a return of many powers to national governments. For the Freedom Party, forming a coalition with the conservatives would be a milestone in Europe where its sister parties, Germany s AfD and France s National Front, can only dream of joining the cabinet. When the Freedom Party last entered government in 2000, also with the conservatives, the EU imposed sanctions on Austria.  I hope that many (in the European parliament) will understand that the topics we are running with have strong support among the population,  said Harald Vilimsky, the FPO s most prominent EU parliamentarian. But even for Kurz supporters like Florian Kahl who are concerned by the Freedom Party s euroscepticism - which it has toned down since making it into the runoff of last year s presidential vote - the far right is still the best partner.  I think (an OVP-FPO) government would mean the most positive change for Austria,  said the 36-year-old civil servant. Amid a crowd dominated by men in suits and slicked back hair and women wearing designer handbags and jewelry in turquoise - the color Kurz chose for his campaign - Pavlina Hristova, a 55-year old launderette worker with broken German seemed ill at ease. But she shared the same views as other Kurz supporters.  It s scarcely possible now (to work with the Social Democrats). It would probably work with the FPO. |

Article 14142 | Date: October 17, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. senators reach bipartisan deal on Obamacare, Trump indicates support |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Two U.S. senators on Tuesday reached a bipartisan agreement to shore up Obamacare for two years by reviving federal subsidies for health insurers that President Donald Trump planned to scrap, and the president indicated his support for the plan. The deal worked out by Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Democratic Senator Patty Murray would meet some Democratic objectives, including reviving the subsidies for Obamacare and restoring $106 million in funding for a federal program that helps people enroll in insurance plans. In exchange, Republicans would get more flexibility for states to offer a wider variety of health insurance plans while maintaining the requirement that sick and healthy people be charged the same rates for coverage. The Trump administration said last week it would stop paying billions of dollars to insurers to help lower-income Americans pay medical expenses, part of the Republican president’s effort to dismantle Obamacare, former Democratic President Barack Obama’s signature healthcare law. The subsidies to private insurers cost the government an estimated $7 billion this year and were forecast at $10 billion for 2018. Trump’s move to scuttle them had raised concerns about chaos in insurance markets. Trump hoped to make good on his campaign promise to dismantle the law when he took office in January, with Republicans, who pledged for seven years to scrap it, controlling Congress. But he has been frustrated with their failure to pass legislation to repeal and replace it. Obamacare, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, extended health insurance coverage to 20 million Americans. Republicans say it is ineffective and a massive government intrusion in a key sector of the economy. The Alexander-Murray plan could keep Obamacare in place at least until the 2020 presidential campaign starts heating up. “This takes care of the next two years. After that, we can have a full-fledged debate on where we go long-term on healthcare,” Alexander said of the deal. It is unclear whether the agreement can make it through Congress. Chuck Schumer, the top Senate Democrat, said it had “broad support” among senators in his party, but it was harder to gauge possible support among Republicans.  Moderate Republican Senator Susan Collins, who helped sink earlier Obamacare repeal legislation, voiced backing for the new plan, but conservative Republicans may be less welcoming. Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent who ran for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016, threw his weight behind the effort. In an interview with Reuters, Sanders said Alexander was a “well-respected figure” known for bipartisanship and that the Tennessee senator’s reputation would help propel the legislation through the Senate. The willingness of Sanders, a liberal champion, to offer his support of a deal with Republicans that could allow states to change some Obamacare requirements provided a boost to the Alexander-Murray effort. “We are going to overturn what Trump is trying to do,” Sanders said. Schumer urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to bring the plan to a vote on the Senate floor and urged the House of Representatives to take it up then as quickly as possible so Trump can sign it. TRUMP STILL SEEKS LONG-TERM SOLUTION Trump, during comments at the White House, suggested he could get behind the Alexander-Murray plan as a short-term solution. In remarks later at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, Trump commended the work by Alexander and Murray, but said: “I continue to believe Congress must find a solution to the Obamacare mess instead of providing bailouts to insurance companies.” Trump said earlier he wanted lawmakers, once they completed a major tax reform effort, to again take up broader legislation that failed in the Senate last month that would divvy up federal healthcare money as block grants to states. Murray is the top Democrat on the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, and Alexander is its chairman. She said the two were able to find common ground on the steps aimed at stabilizing the insurance markets created under Obamacare and to “help protect families from premium spikes as a result of the sabotage we have seen from this administration.” According to a document seen by Reuters, the plan would make it easier for states to get waivers approved that would allow them to offer cheaper healthcare plans, including catastrophic health plans, which cover a limited set of benefits and are currently only available to those under 30. Shares of U.S. hospital operators, including Tenet Healthcare Corp and HCA Healthcare Inc, moved higher after news of the deal. Tenet shares closed 5.3 percent higher, while HCA rose 2.2 percent. Shares of some U.S. health insurers also extended their gains on the day, with Anthem Inc finishing up 1.9 percent and Centene Corp gaining 3.2 percent. Analyst Brian Tanquilut of global investment banking firm Jefferies, who focuses on hospital companies, said that if the deal is passed in Congress, it should stabilize the Obamacare insurance exchanges and improve their viability. “Hospitals will avoid a potential spike in bad debt and charity care next year,” Tanquilut said. “This is obviously a good step. It’s bipartisan and guaranteed for two years.” |

Article 14152 | Date: October 17, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: CIA says mistakenly 'shredded' Senate torture report then did not |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Central Intelligence Agency thought for months that it had mistakenly shredded a massive U.S. Senate report on its use of waterboarding and other “enhanced interrogation techniques” before suddenly discovering that its copy had not been lost after all, an agency official said on Tuesday. “It’s embarrassing and I have apologized,” Christopher Sharpley, the acting CIA Inspector General, told the Senate Intelligence Committee during his confirmation hearing as President Donald Trump’s nominee for the position. Championed by Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein when she chaired the Senate panel, the “torture report,” as it is known, is the result of a six-year investigation into so-called enhanced interrogation techniques used by the CIA after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, during the administration of Republican President George W. Bush. The report has been the subject of disputes between the agency and committee Democrats, as well as Democrats and Republicans, over issues including whether it should be declassified and whether investigators broke the law as they assembled it. Feinstein wants the 6,700-page document declassified. But Republican Senator Richard Burr, her successor as committee chairman, has resisted its release and asked for the return of copies distributed to government agencies under Democratic President Barack Obama. Sharpley said the CIA received the report in December 2014 on a computer disk, which was then uploaded into a classified system. Shortly thereafter, he said, the agency was told to delete it because of ongoing Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) litigation. An email was sent saying the disk should not be destroyed, but Sharpley said he was told months later it could not be found and that an employee said it had been shredded. But he said the disk was discovered later, after the FOIA litigation concluded that the report was a “congressional” document not subject to FOIA requests. Sharpley said around that time, Burr asked him to return the disk and he did so. The committee’s Democrats appeared frustrated by Sharpley’s account. “The point of distributing it to the departments was in the hope that they would read it - not look at it as some poison document - and learn from it,” Feinstein said, noting that to her knowledge, not a single fact in the report has been refuted. Sharpley said he had not read the report, only an unclassified executive summary. Democratic Senator Ron Wyden announced after the hearing that he would not support Sharpley’s nomination because he had handed the report over to Burr, although there was no legal requirement to do so. Sharpley also would not commit to protecting any future reports, such as one related to the committee’s probe of potential links between Trump’s campaign and Russian efforts to interfere in the 2016 U.S. election. “I think your highest duty here is to follow the law. The notion that the chairman asked for it and that’s all that governed your judgment isn’t acceptable to me,” Wyden said during the hearing. Obama ended the use of “enhanced interrogation techniques” via executive order in January 2009. Led by Feinstein and Republican Senator John McCain, Congress has since passed legislation outlawing their use. Burr said he planned a vote on Sharpley’s nomination next week and looked forward to supporting him. |

Article 14260 | Date: October 18, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. wants stronger India economic, defense ties given China's rise: Tillerson |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said before a visit to India next week that the Trump administration wanted to “dramatically deepen” cooperation with New Delhi, seeing it as a key partner in the face of negative Chinese influence in Asia. Speaking on Wednesday, less than a month before President Donald Trump is due to make his first state visit to China, Tillerson said the United States had begun to discuss creating alternatives to Chinese infrastructure financing in Asia. In another comment likely to upset Beijing, he said Washington saw room to invite others, including Australia, to join U.S.-India-Japan security cooperation, something Beijing has opposed as an attempt by democracies to gang up on it. The remarks coincide with the start of a week-long Chinese Communist Party congress at which President Xi Jinping is seeking to further consolidate his power. “The United States seeks constructive relations with China, but we will not shrink from China’s challenges to the rules-based order and where China subverts the sovereignty of neighboring countries and disadvantages the U.S. and our friends,” Tillerson told the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank. “India and the United States should be in the business of equipping other countries to defend their sovereignty, build greater connectivity, and have a louder voice in a regional architecture that promotes their interests and develops their economies,” Tillerson added. The U.S. decision to expand relations with India almost certainly will upset India’s rival, Pakistan, where Tillerson also will stop next week, said a senior State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity. Pakistan was the main U.S. ally in South Asia for decades, but U.S. officials are frustrated with what they charge has been Pakistan’s failure to cut support for the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan, where the administration wants India to play a bigger role in economic development. As part of a South Asia strategy unveiled by Trump in August, Tillerson is expected to press Islamabad, which denies aiding the Taliban, to take stronger steps against extremists and allied groups and intensify efforts to pressure them to agree to peace talks with Kabul. “We expect Pakistan to take decisive action against terrorist groups based there that threaten its own people and the broader region,” Tillerson said. Trump has threatened further cuts in U.S. aid to Pakistan if it fails to cooperate. China, a strategic rival to the United States and India, is also vital to Trump’s efforts to roll back North Korea’s efforts to create nuclear-armed missiles capable of reaching the United States, an issue expected to top the agenda in Trump’s Nov. 8-10 Beijing visit. A senior State Department official defended the timing of the speech, saying Tillerson also said he wanted a constructive relationship with China. “For many decades the United States has supported China’s rise,” said the official. “We’ve also supported India’s rise. But those two countries have risen very differently.” In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said China hoped the United States could abandon bias when viewing its actions overseas. “China will never develop itself at the expense of other countries,” Lu told a regular briefing on Thursday. “At the same time we will never give up our justly deserved rights and interests.”  Healthy relations between China and the United States are good for the people of both countries and are expected by the Asia-Pacific region, he added. Tillerson did not say what he meant by creating an alternative to Chinese infrastructure financing, but said the Trump administration had begun a “quiet conversation” with some emerging East Asian democracies at a summit in August. He said Chinese financing was saddling countries with “enormous” debts and failing to create jobs. “We think it’s important that we begin to develop some means of countering that with alternative financing measures.” “We will not be able to compete with the kind of terms that China offers, but countries have to decide what are they willing to pay to secure their sovereignty and their future control of their economies and we’ve had those discussions with them as well,” he said. |

Article 14263 | Date: October 18, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: White House says Trump opposes Senate's bipartisan Obamacare deal |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A bipartisan deal from two senators to stabilize Obamacare by restoring subsidies to health insurers suffered major setbacks on Wednesday with the White House saying President Donald Trump now opposes it and senior Republicans speaking out against it. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, Senate Republican leadership member John Thune and others expressed hostility to the deal announced on Tuesday by Republican Lamar Alexander and Democrat Patty Murray. It was uncertain if it would ever come to a vote in a Congress controlled by Trump’s fellow Republicans. The agreement would shore up Obamacare by reviving billions of dollars of federal subsidies to insurers for two years to help lower-income Americans obtain medical coverage. Alexander said on Wednesday that Trump had “completely engineered” the bipartisan proposal, but the president backed away from support he had expressed a day earlier. On Tuesday, Trump said the White House was involved in the negotiations and that the agreement was “a very good solution” for a short-term approach, but said on Wednesday he could “never support bailing out” insurance companies. Trump has cut off subsidies to the companies, saying Congress has not provided money for them and that they enrich insurers. White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said Trump did not support the deal in its current form, although she called it “a good step in the right direction.” “Look, we’ve said all along that we want something that doesn’t just bail out the insurance companies but actually provides relief for all Americans,” she said at a briefing. “And this bill doesn’t address that fact.” The confusion among lawmakers in both parties over Trump’s position on the healthcare deal and the lack of trust some of them have in the president come as Congress is entering a crucial period when important bills on federal spending, the U.S. debt limit and tax cuts are due for consideration. Thune said the agreement might have “stalled out” and that its future was an “open question.” Republicans have a 52-48 Senate majority, but other than Alexander only a few have publicly embraced the plan, including Senators John McCain, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds and Bob Corker. “No way to pay for it,” Hatch said. “Oh my gosh, give me a break. I appreciate the innovation and the attempt to do it right. But it doesn’t help.” Trump, who campaigned on a promise to get rid of Obamacare but has been frustrated by the failure of Republicans in Congress to pass legislation to do so, also made clear he wanted broader legislation to repeal and replace the law. “Lamar Alexander’s working on it very hard from our side. And if something can happen, that’s fine,” Trump told reporters at the White House. “But I won’t do anything to enrich the insurance companies. ... They’ve been enriched by Obamacare like nothing anybody’s ever seen before.” Insurers say they do not profit from the subsidies under the Affordable Care Act, former Democratic President Barack Obama’s signature legislative achievement dubbed Obamacare, but pass them on directly to consumers to reduce deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket medical expenses for low-income people. Ending the subsidies, which are called cost-sharing reduction payments, could create chaos in the 2018 health insurance markets set up under Obamacare. Some leading insurers, including UnitedHealth Group, Aetna Inc and Humana Inc, have largely exited those markets, citing financial losses. Others including Anthem Inc have significantly reduced their presence in the state-based markets. Ryan gave no indication of willingness to consider the Alexander-Murray agreement. “The speaker does not see anything that changes his view that the Senate should keep its focus on repeal and replace of Obamacare,” Ryan spokesman Doug Andres said. The proposal drew broad Democratic support. Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer ripped Trump for his shifting stances on the Alexander-Murray deal. “This president cannot govern if, whenever the hard right frightens him and says: ‘Jump,’ he says: “How high?’” Schumer told reporters. “The president is pointing fingers,” Schumer said. “He blames (Senate Majority Leader) Mitch McConnell for obstruction. He blames the Democrats for obstruction. He’s the obstructionist in chief because he cannot stick to a position.” The proposal would meet some Democratic objectives, such as reviving subsidies for Obamacare and restoring $106 million in funding for a federal program that helps people enroll in insurance plans. In exchange, Republicans would get more flexibility for states to offer a wider variety of health insurance plans while maintaining the requirement that sick and healthy people be charged the same rates for coverage. Democratic attorneys general from 18 states and the District of Columbia who have filed a legal challenge to the subsidy cutoff asked a judge in California to direct the administration by Thursday to continue the payments. At a hearing on Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Vince Chhabria in San Francisco said he would likely rule on the states’ request next week. Murray, speaking to Reuters on Wednesday, said her agreement with Alexander was still very much alive. “Absolutely,” Murray said. “Lamar and I are working to have a good set of co-sponsors,” and hope to formally introduce it as a Senate bill on Thursday. |

Article 14289 | Date: October 18, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Britain's new concessions are not enough, EU leaders tell May |
 | Content: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union leaders welcomed a proposal by British Prime Minister Theresa May aimed at unblocking Brexit talks, but said concessions to ease the fears of EU citizens living in Britain were not enough. Arriving at a two-day summit in Brussels on Thursday with other EU leaders, May sought to shift the focus away from a failure to push the talks beyond a discussion of a divorce settlement and onto trade talks just 17 months before Britain is due to leave. Instead the prime minister, weakened after losing her Conservative Party s majority in a June election, put renewed emphasis on settling citizens rights, one of three issues that must be solved to break the deadlock in talks. But EU leaders said there was more work to be done, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel describing some  encouraging  signs that could help pave the way for a discussion on future trade ties at the next EU summit in December. May said the leaders assess the progress that has been made so far in the Brexit talks and set out  ambitious plans  for the weeks ahead.  I particularly, for example, want to see an urgency in reaching an agreement on citizens  rights,  May told reporters. But she avoided questions about increasing the amount Britain is willing to pay when it leaves, instead referring back to a speech last month in Italy when she outlined an offer of around 20 billion euros ($24 billion). May will discuss her Brexit strategy over dinner. On Friday morning, once she has left, other EU leaders are expected to say the talks have not yet made enough progress for them to open the trade negotiations. Weakened after losing her Conservative Party s majority in a June election and failing to rally support at an ill-fated party conference, May is constrained in her ability to address EU demands that she increase her pay offer for the divorce agreement. Some members of her own party would prefer to see her walk away if the EU does not agree to move the talks forward to discuss trade. Germany and its allies do not want to be left with a large bill when Britain leaves the bloc in March 2019. Merkel said EU leaders would listen to the report from their chief negotiator Michel Barnier, but that sufficient progress had not yet been made.  We will continue the talks with a view to reaching the second phase in December . Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar urged May to  come up with more clarity  not only on guarantees on citizens rights, but also on her plans to avoid a return of a hard border with Northern Ireland.  These are still difficult issues, but particularly the question of the exit bill,  he told reporters. May tried to shift the focus away from how much Britain should pay. On her Facebook page, she wrote that  we are in touching distance of agreement  for protecting the rights of around 3 million EU citizens living in Britain and promised to make it as easy as possible for them to stay. Luxembourg s Prime Minister Xavier Bettel told reporters the Facebook post  went in the right direction  and that  every movement in the right direction is important , noting a change in tone in the British government over the past six months. But Finland s leader, Juha Sipila, said the EU was  a little bit frustrated about the progress.  The lack of movement has increased the pressure on May from inside her own party. In an open letter on Thursday, pro-Brexit lawmakers and business people said that unless the deadlock was broken, Britain should signal it is ready to be subject to World Trade Organization (WTO) rules from March 30, 2019, when Brexit takes effect. Owen Paterson, a lawmaker and former minister from May s Conservative Party, said it looked  inevitable  that the trade relationship between Britain and the EU would end up being governed by WTO rules, meaning no special deal.  So what we re saying is it would be much better to state that now, give business and all our administrative organisations certainty so they can begin to prepare,  he said. |

Article 14297 | Date: October 18, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. wants stronger India economic, defense ties given China's rise: Tillerson |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said before a visit to India next week that the Trump administration wanted to  dramatically deepen  cooperation with New Delhi, seeing it as a key partner in the face of negative Chinese influence in Asia. Speaking on Wednesday, less than a month before President Donald Trump is due to make his first state visit to China, Tillerson said the United States had begun to discuss creating alternatives to Chinese infrastructure financing in Asia. In another comment likely to upset Beijing, he said Washington saw room to invite others, including Australia, to join U.S.-India-Japan security cooperation, something Beijing has opposed as an attempt by democracies to gang up on it. The remarks coincide with the start of a week-long Chinese Communist Party congress at which President Xi Jinping is seeking to further consolidate his power.  The United States seeks constructive relations with China, but we will not shrink from China s challenges to the rules-based order and where China subverts the sovereignty of neighboring countries and disadvantages the U.S. and our friends,  Tillerson told the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank.  India and the United States should be in the business of equipping other countries to defend their sovereignty, build greater connectivity, and have a louder voice in a regional architecture that promotes their interests and develops their economies,  Tillerson added. The U.S. decision to expand relations with India almost certainly will upset India s rival, Pakistan, where Tillerson also will stop next week, said a senior State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity. Pakistan was the main U.S. ally in South Asia for decades, but U.S. officials are frustrated with what they charge has been Pakistan s failure to cut support for the Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan, where the administration wants India to play a bigger role in economic development. As part of a South Asia strategy unveiled by Trump in August, Tillerson is expected to press Islamabad, which denies aiding the Taliban, to take stronger steps against extremists and allied groups and intensify efforts to pressure them to agree to peace talks with Kabul.  We expect Pakistan to take decisive action against terrorist groups based there that threaten its own people and the broader region,  Tillerson said. Trump has threatened further cuts in U.S. aid to Pakistan if it fails to cooperate. China, a strategic rival to the United States and India, is also vital to Trump s efforts to roll back North Korea s efforts to create nuclear-armed missiles capable of reaching the United States, an issue expected to top the agenda in Trump s Nov. 8-10 Beijing visit. A senior State Department official defended the timing of the speech, saying Tillerson also said he wanted a constructive relationship with China.  For many decades the United States has supported China s rise,  said the official.  We ve also supported India s rise. But those two countries have risen very differently.  In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said China hoped the United States could abandon bias when viewing its actions overseas.  China will never develop itself at the expense of other countries,  Lu told a regular briefing on Thursday.  At the same time we will never give up our justly deserved rights and interests.   Healthy relations between China and the United States are good for the people of both countries and are expected by the Asia-Pacific region, he added. Tillerson did not say what he meant by creating an alternative to Chinese infrastructure financing, but said the Trump administration had begun a  quiet conversation  with some emerging East Asian democracies at a summit in August. He said Chinese financing was saddling countries with  enormous  debts and failing to create jobs.  We think it s important that we begin to develop some means of countering that with alternative financing measures.   We will not be able to compete with the kind of terms that China offers, but countries have to decide what are they willing to pay to secure their sovereignty and their future control of their economies and we ve had those discussions with them as well,  he said. |

Article 14465 | Date: October 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: CIA chief says U.S.-Canadian couple held for five years in Pakistan |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The head of the CIA said on Thursday a U.S.-Canadian couple kidnapped by Islamist militants in Afghanistan were held inside neighboring Pakistan for five years before being freed.       We had a great outcome last week when we were able to get back four U.S. citizens who had been held for five years inside of Pakistan,  CIA Director Mike Pompeo told the Foundation for Defense of Democracies think tank in Washington. Pompeo s remarks appeared to be the first time a U.S. official has publicly stated that the couple and their children spent their captivity in Pakistan, contrary to accounts from Pakistani officials. Pakistan s military and government have indicated U.S. citizen Caitlan Coleman, her Canadian husband Joshua Boyle and their children were rescued shortly after entering Pakistan from Afghanistan. The couple were kidnapped in 2012 while backpacking in Afghanistan and their children were born in captivity. U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, have previously said there was no indication the hostages had been in Afghanistan in the days before they were freed. The officials said the United States believed the hostages were probably held by the Haqqani militant group in or near its headquarters in northwestern Pakistan the entire time. Regarded as the most fearsome and effective Taliban ally, the Haqqani network gets support from elements of the Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan s powerful military-run intelligence agency, U.S. officials say. Pakistan denies it. A senior Pakistani security source said last Friday that  Pakistani troops and intelligence agents, acting on a U.S. intelligence tip, zeroed in on a vehicle carrying the family as they were being moved into the Kurram tribal region near the town of Kohat, some 60 km (37 miles) inside Pakistan. Pakistani officials bristle at U.S. claims Islamabad is not doing enough to tackle Islamist militants, particularly the Haqqanis.  After the release of the family, Pakistani officials emphasized the importance of co-operation and intelligence sharing by Washington, which has threatened to cut military aid and take other punitive measures against Pakistan. However, two Taliban sources with knowledge of the family s captivity said they had been kept in Pakistan in recent years. The Haqqani network operates on both sides of the porous Afghan-Pakistani border but senior militants have acknowledged they moved a major base of operations to the Kurram region. As part of a strategy unveiled in August to end the war in Afghanistan, the Trump administration is demanding Pakistan cease providing what U.S. officials say is safe haven to militants, or face repercussions. Those measures could include further cuts in U.S. assistance and sanctions targeted at Pakistani officials with links to militant organizations. Pompeo s remarks came ahead of a visit to Pakistan next week by U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who said on Wednesday the United States expected Pakistan  to take decisive action against terrorist groups.  A senior Trump administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said on Thursday the United States considers the family s rescue a  template for more cooperation  by Pakistan.  We see this as a first step and we hope that we can build on it,  said the official, adding that Washington is  very frustrated that Taliban and Haqqani militants continue to find sanctuary in Pakistan.   It s freedom of movement, it s the ability to transport weapons and materiel, the ability to raise funds. This is what makes a sanctuary,  the official added. Pompeo said the United States would do everything if could to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table in Afghanistan, but added it could not be achieved if the militants had safe havens. |

Article 14598 | Date: October 20, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Death of a blogger casts shadow over murky Malta |
 | Content: VALLETTA (Reuters) - Daphne Caruana Galizia posted two items last Monday on her popular blog, one ridiculing Malta s opposition leader for having rounded shoulders, the other denouncing a senior government official as a  crook .  A typical morning s work done, she set off in her white Peugeot 108 to run an errand, but barely made it past her front gate before a bomb tore through the car, throwing it into an adjacent field and killing her instantly. Her death shocked Malta, the smallest nation in the European Union, which has been engulfed by a wave of graft scandals, including accusations of money laundering and influence peddling in government   all of which have been denied. Caruana Galizia exposed many of these cases and was loved by her readers as a fearless, anti-corruption crusader. Critics saw her as a muck-raking fantasist. Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, her main target, promised everything would be done to find her killers, but friends and family have low expectations that anyone will be brought to justice, seeing murky powers behind a very professional hit.  She had to be done away with because she couldn t be bought off,  said Manuel Delia, a blogger who described the 53-year-old Caruana Galizia as his mentor.  She was a polemicist, a provocateur and a critic. She was unique in Malta.   A trail-blazing journalist, Caruana Galizia was one of Malta s first political columnists in the 1990s at a time when its newspapers were staid and male-dominated. The confines of established media frustrated her and in 2008 she set up her blog   Running Commentary   a one-woman operation which drew up to 400,000 page views a day, matching the volumes recorded on the websites of the largest dailies. She sometimes posted more than 30 items a day, mixing caustic commentary with tabloid gossip and detailed graft allegations, supplied by what she called her  network of spies .  The blog allowed her to express herself exactly as she wanted and expose abuse wherever she saw it,  said Petra Caruana Dingli, a friend of the slain writer. Much of the criticism was leveled against Muscat and his leftist Labour party, which won power in 2013 after a nearly quarter of a century of uninterrupted rule by the conservative Nationalist Party, itself tainted by corruption scandals. Malta, a rocky archipelago 100 km (60 miles) south of Sicily with a population of 430,000, has no major soccer clubs or religious divisions. Instead, people define themselves by their politics, and Caruana Galizia was seen in the Nationalist camp. She denied being in anyone s camp, but said Labour was turning Malta into a mafia state   something the party rejects.  She was a fierce Labour critic, but definitely not a fair critic,  said Glenn Bedingfield, a Labour parliamentarian.  She made very personal attacks over the way we looked, the way we dressed. She used to ridicule anyone associated with the Labour Party camp. She was not kind. She hurt a lot of people.  She could also shake the party to its core. Last year, in the so-called Panama Papers, she found Muscat s chief of staff and one of his ministers had Panama-registered companies. She said they created the firms to hide bribes. They denied wrongdoing. This year, she said she had proof Muscat s wife also owned a Panama-based company that allegedly received $1 million from Azerbaijan, which has growing commercial ties with Malta.  She denied the accusations, as did Muscat, who instigated an investigation. Magistrates heard evidence from Caruana Galizia, but have yet to release their findings. Muscat called snap elections for June, saying he wanted a fresh mandate to prevent political uncertainty from damaging the economy, the strongest performer in the European Union. Critics such as Caruana Galizia say the economic success is fueled by schemes such as selling Maltese passports to foreigners, or handing out licences that have turned Malta into the online gambling capital of Europe. The government says these initiatives are legitimate, and voters returned Muscat to office with a stable majority.  Stunned by his victory, Caruana Galizia halted work on her blog for a month to spend time with her three sons and take care of her much loved house and garden. She returned in the summer with a surprise new target   Adrian Delia who was looking to become leader of the Nationalist Party (NP). Some NP supporters saw it as a betrayal and vilified her in  social media.  People called her a hag, a slut, a witch,  said her friend Caruana Dingli.  It took its toll, but she carried on regardless.   Going where newspapers feared to tread, Caruana Galizia accused Delia of drawing money from a London-based prostitution racket. He denied this and filed five libel suits. Caruana Galizia received 36 libel suits in the past nine months alone, including 19 from a property developer, while the economy minister persuaded the courts to freeze her bank account to ensure she could pay up if she lost a case against him.  The libel suits were part of a wider strategy to shut her up,  said Corinne Vella, one of Caruana Galizia s three sisters.  They seemed to be designed to eat up her time and money.  Caruana Galizia came from a well-to-do family and her husband was a successful lawyer. Besides her blog, she also edited a glossy magazine and wrote newspaper columns. She was confident she would win the Malta libel suits, where, in any case, maximum damages total 11,647 euros ($13,728). Four days after her killing, police say they have made no arrests and predict it will take weeks to accumulate all the evidence.  I think people silence journalists not because of what they have written, but because of what they are planning to write,  Muscat told Reuters in his office in Valletta. Caruana Galizia s friends and family say they were not aware she had uncovered any explosive new stories.  I asked her if she had any more. She told me:  Isn t what I have got enough?  said blogger Manuel Delia. |

Article 14953 | Date: October 24, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Russian presidential hopeful says she won't sling mud at Putin |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - Ksenia Sobchak, a Russian TV personality planning to run against Vladimir Putin in next year s presidential election, attacked his policies on Tuesday but said she would not personally insult him in the campaign because he was a family friend. Sobchak, 35, and the daughter of a former mayor of St Petersburg for whom Putin once worked, said she does not expect to beat Putin, who is a runaway favorite for re-election in March if he chooses to run again. But she said she wants to provide an alternative choice for Russian voters who are frustrated with mainstream politicians. Alexei Navalny, a fierce critic of Putin, has said he believes Sobchak is being used by the Kremlin to blunt protests by liberals alienated from the political process, though she has  denied doing the Kremlin s bidding.  I tell you honestly: I m running against everyone, and this refers to Vladimir Putin,  she said. But she added:  I personally will not insult Putin.   For some, he is a tyrant and dictator ... but for me this is a person who, first of all, helped my father in a difficult situation and de facto saved his life,  she told a news conference to unveil her campaign team. She did however state her opposition to Putin possibly running for a fourth term in power.  I am against the corrupt system which was built in our country during these years and I am against anyone, including Putin, being in power for 18 years.   The fact that the country has no fair elections is the result of those 18 years.  Sobchak is the daughter of Anatoly Sobchak, a reformist Petersburg mayor who hired Putin as an official in City Hall in the 1990s. Sobchak became his mentor. Sobchak lost the mayor s job in a 1996 election. He later moved to France and became the subject of a criminal investigation in Russia for receiving bribes and abuse of office. He denied wrongdoing, saying the case was politically-motivated. The case against him was dropped in 1999, soon after Putin became prime minister. When Sobchak died in 2000, Putin attended his funeral.  Opinion polls show that Putin, 65, who has dominated Russian politics for nearly two decades, will comfortably win re-election if, as most analysts expect, he decides to seek a fourth term in March. He has so far kept silent about his plans. |

Article 15014 | Date: October 25, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Bipartisan Obamacare fix would cut U.S. deficit: nonpartisan analysis |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A bipartisan Senate proposal to shore up Obamacare insurance marketplaces would cut the U.S. deficit by $3.8 billion over the next decade and would not substantially change the number of Americans with health insurance, a nonpartisan arm of Congress said on Wednesday. Legislation introduced last week by Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Democratic Senator Patty Murray would restore for two years subsidies to private insurers to help lower-income people buy insurance. President Donald Trump this month cut off those subsidies. The bill also would provide states more flexibility to change some rules in the 2010 Affordable Care Act, the signature legislative achievement of the Republican Trump’s Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office previously estimated that various Republican proposals to repeal and replace Obamacare would cause more than 20 million people to lose health insurance. In contrast, the CBO on Wednesday said reinstating the subsidies, as called for in the Alexander-Murray bill, would not substantially alter the number of insured. The CBO also estimated that the fix would not impact 2018 health insurance rates because they are already set. Health insurers said they raised premiums on average 20 percent to make up for the lost federal subsidies. The CBO said it expected 2019 health insurance premiums to be lower with the insurer payments than without them. While the Alexander-Murray legislation would reduce the federal deficit, the CBO previously found that eliminating the subsidies, called cost sharing reductions, would raise the federal deficit by $194 billion over a decade. Because premiums would rise in the absence of the subsidies, the government would be compelled to spend more on financial assistance to low-income Americans. About 20 million Americans obtained insurance through Obamacare and the law helped drive the U.S. uninsured rate to a record low, but Republicans have called it an unwarranted government intrusion in a healthcare system that represents a fifth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the Alexander-Murray bill will ever come to a vote in Congress. Trump has sent mixed signals about it, initially supporting it last week and then opposing it. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he would not bring it up without Trump’s support. Trump has derided the insurer payments as a “bailout” and has vowed to let Obamacare “implode.”  “It does not bail out insurance companies, it does benefit consumers, it does benefit taxpayers to the tune of $3.8 billion,” Alexander said on Wednesday on the Senate floor. Insurers say they do not profit from the subsidies, but pass them on directly to consumers to reduce deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket medical expenses for low-income people.     Trump, who as a candidate promised to get rid of Obamacare, has been frustrated by the inability of a Congress led by his own party to pass a bill to repeal and replace it, and has taken steps that bypass lawmakers to chip away at the law. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan has signaled his opposition and on Wednesday said his chamber would not take up the matter or try again to pass broader Republican legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare this year. With broad Democratic backing and the support of a dozen Republican senators, the Alexander-Murray bill has sufficient backing to exceed the 60 votes needed for passage in the 100-seat Senate, if McConnell allows it to come to a vote. Two prominent Republicans in the House and Senate on Tuesday announced a competing Obamacare fix that is more conservative and appears to address many of the Trump administration’s objections to the Alexander-Murray proposal.  The proposal by Republican Senator Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Republican Representative Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, includes provisions to suspend requirements for individuals and employers to buy health coverage under Obamacare. Ryan told Reuters in an interview he favored the Hatch-Brady proposal. |

Article 15018 | Date: October 25, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. lawmakers will not tackle healthcare this year, Ryan says: Reuters interview |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican lawmakers will not take up a bipartisan plan to stabilize Obamacare insurance markets or try again to repeal and replace the law this year, House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan said on Wednesday, signaling his party was shelving the matter until the 2018 U.S. congressional election year. President Donald Trump promised as a candidate last year to dismantle Obamacare. While the House passed such a bill last May, the Senate tried but failed to do so in July and September thanks to deep intra-party divisions and fears that millions of Americans would lose their healthcare coverage. “I think that is something we should do next year,” Ryan said in an interview with Reuters when asked about prospects of the House passing a bipartisan bill that would reinstate federal subsidies to private insurers to help lower-income people buy medical coverage through the Affordable Care Act, dubbed Obamacare. Asked whether the seven-year Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare was now dead, Ryan responded, “No.” But he added, “I can’t imagine we can do that this year.” Congress has a packed calendar between now and the end of 2017. It includes a major tax cut package that President Donald Trump wants lawmakers to pass by the end of the year as well as legislation to avert a potential government shutdown looming in December.  Trump has been frustrated by the inability of a Congress led by his own party to pass the bill, and has taken steps that bypass lawmakers to chip away at the law. Trump this month cut off billions of dollars in Obamacare subsidies to insurers, known as cost-sharing reduction payments, saying they are unlawful and enrich insurance companies. Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Democratic Senator Patty Murray last week unveiled a bipartisan bill to maintain those subsidies for two years and give states some added flexibility for administering health insurance while also maintaining many of Obamacare’s patient protections. The plan drew bipartisan support in the Senate, but Trump came out against it after initially backing it. The subsidies are a critical element of Obamacare. Insurers say they do not profit from the subsidies, but pass them on directly to consumers to reduce deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket medical expenses for low-income people. Ryan said he favored a more conservative short-term Obamacare fix offered by leading Republicans in the House and Senate. It includes provisions to suspend requirements for individuals and employers to obtain health coverage under Obamacare. Democrats are likely to balk over concerns that the measure could undermine the viability of Obamacare’s subsidized insurance market for individuals. Republicans call Obamacare a government intrusion in the U.S. healthcare system while Democrats note that the 2010 law brought insurance to 20 million Americans. Congressional elections are set for November 2018, with party primaries earlier in the year. |

Article 15172 | Date: October 26, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Catalonia's leader rules out snap election, crisis deepens |
 | Content: MADRID/BARCELONA (Reuters) - Catalonia s leader Carles Puigdemont on Thursday said he would not hold a new regional election to break the deadlock between  Madrid and separatists wanting to split from Spain, sharpening a political crisis that could turn into direct confrontation. Puigdemont had been expected to announce an election to head off moves by Madrid to take direct control of the autonomous region in the next few days. But, speaking in the courtyard of the regional government headquarters in Barcelona, Puigdemont said the central government had not provided sufficient guarantees that holding an election would prevent the imposition of direct rule.  I was ready to call an election if guarantees were given. There is no guarantee that justifies calling an election today,  Puigdemont said. He said it was now up to the Catalan parliament to move forward with a mandate to break from Spain following an independence referendum that took place on Oct. 1 - a vote which Madrid had declared illegal and tried to stop. Some independence supporters are pushing him to unilaterally declare independence. Late on Thursday, the regional government s business head resigned over his opposition to a unilateral declaration, a sign of growing division in the separatist movement. Puigdemont s stand sets the stage for the Spanish Senate on Friday to approve the take-over of Catalonia s institutions and police, and give the government in Madrid the power to remove the Catalan president. But this could spark confrontation on the streets as some independence supporters have promised to mount a campaign of civil disobedience. Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, speaking in a Senate committee, said:  The independence leaders have shown their true face - they have promised a dream but are performing tricks.  The aim of Article 155   the constitutional trigger for direct rule   was to permit any election to take place in a normal and neutral situation, she said. The Spanish government has said it would call such a vote within six months of taking over Catalonia. The political crisis, the gravest since Spain s return to democracy four decades ago, has divided Catalonia itself and caused deep resentment in other parts of the country. It has also prompted a flight of business from the wealthy region and worried other European leaders who see it as fanning separatist sentiment elsewhere on the continent. It was not clear whether Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy would immediately enforce direct rule or simply seek the Senate s authorization to do so without making it effective on the ground. Exactly how the central government would enforce it in practical terms, and how Catalan civil service and regional police would react, is also uncertain. National police used heavy-handed tactics to try to prevent the Oct. 1 referendum from taking place, drawing accusations that they were resorting to the repressive behavior of the 1939-1975 Franco dictatorship. However, in a fast-moving battle of wills that has seen both sides stake out hard positions and try to keep each other guessing, it was not impossible that a sudden breakthrough could  be made in the next 24 hours. Spain's IBEX .IBEX closed up 1.9 percent as hopes of such a breakthrough fueled optimism among investors. Catalonia contributes a fifth of Spain's economy, the fourth-largest in the euro zone. Most Spanish blue-chips posted substantial gains, notably Banco Sabadell (SABE.MC) and Banco Santander (SAN.MC), both up 3.2 percent. CRACKS IN PRO-INDEPENDENCE CAMP According to Spanish media, Puigdemont is ready to call an election if the government drops Article 155, releases two senior secessionist leaders who are in jail and removes national police from Catalonia. Even if the Senate voted for direct rule on Friday, Puigdemont would not be stripped of his powers until Saturday when the law is published in Spain s official state gazette. Ander Gil Garcia, a spokesman for the Socialist group in the Senate, said:  We are in the last hours of the penultimate day in which we can avoid what nobody wants.  He appealed to Puigdemont to call a regional election  and avoid a disaster from which Catalonia and Spain would take a long time to recover.  A regional election could either strengthen Puigdemont s mandate if pro-independence parties won or allow him a graceful exit if they did not. Cracks though are beginning to appear in an increasingly-frustrated Catalan independence movement. The Catalan government s business head, Santi Vila, who has opposed a unilateral declaration of independence, said on Thursday he had resigned and said his  attempts at dialogue had failed.  Earlier on Thursday, when it was thought Puigdemont would announce an election, he was denounced by some angry independence supporters as a traitor. Several hundred gathered outside the regional government headquarters in protest. Some pro-secession lawmakers and mayors announced they would step down. Catalonia s pro-independence party ERC would leave the regional government if Puigdemont called a snap election, a party source said.  And far-left party CUP, which supports Puigdemont s minority government, said it would oppose a vote. Albert Ribas, a 37-year-old hotel director listening to a radio in Barcelona s Sant Jaume Square, said it had been a hard day.  We have lost our dignity. But I suppose we had to show the outside world that we re still making the effort to talk to the Spanish government. But again we see we have hit a wall. |

Article 15202 | Date: October 26, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Egypt election in view, Sisi supporters fire up campaign for mandate |
 | Content: CAIRO (Reuters) - Six months before Egypt s election, President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi s supporters are petitioning for him to run, rallying around the former military commander whose popularity critics say has been dimmed by austerity reforms, security problems and a crackdown on dissidents.   Four years ago, Sisi won a landslide victory after he led the military ouster of then president Mohamed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood, promising stability following Egypt s 2011 Arab Spring uprising.   Sisi, 62, has yet to declare if he will run, though he is unlikely to face strong opposition. He says he will follow the people s will, and many in Egypt still see him as key to stability in a country where unrest since 2011 has battered the economy.   But some critics say that narrative has been undercut by tough austerity reforms and a currency flotation that has made even the middle-class poorer, and an Islamic insurgency that has extended outside its battleground in the northern Sinai,     The  So You Can Build It  petition campaign launched by a businessman, professors and pro-Sisi independent lawmakers is looking to whip up turnout for Sisi and show he still has the legitimacy of a popular mandate. Less than a month into the campaign, its founders claim they will rally massive support. A host of celebrities have signed up, posing on social media with petition forms that show Egypt s red, white and black flag, and a silhouette of the pyramids.   We will find out from the numbers we have collected what the Egyptian people s support looks like ... especially since there are rumors that there s been a decline in popular support,  said Mohamed Shaaban, the campaign s co-founder and an independent lawmaker allied with Sisi.  Some Sisi opponents say the scale of the campaign shows that Egyptians have few viable opposition candidates to choose from in the election likely to happen around April.  All this negatively affects the political climate in Egypt and increases reluctance to run against Sisi,  Mohamed Anwar al-Sadat, nephew of a former president who once backed Sisi but is now considering running against him, said last week.  It will discourage voters and make them more reluctant to go out and vote in the upcoming elections.  Detractors have taken to social media to poke fun at the petition, posting pictures of aliens and U.S. President Donald Trump signing the form. Others have suggested a counter-movement calling instead for Sisi to step down. Under Sisi s presidency, thousands of dissidents have been jailed, the government has shut down independent media and heavily restricted the conducting of opinion polls. There have been no official polls on the upcoming election yet.  However, many Egyptians are wary of challenging the status quo after six years of living through a pro-democracy revolt, a military takeover and a prolonged state of emergency that has left people unwilling to protest or looking for stability. Only two people   Sadat and Khaled Ali, a lawyer who challenged Sisi over a dispute about two islands in the Red Sea   have publicly aired the idea of challenging him and even they say Sisi is likely to win. Last election, Sisi won about 97 percent of the vote on a turnout of 47.5 percent, after voting was extended for a day. This time, his backers want to show his legitimacy not been tarnished by economic and security problems.   The issue is not whether Sisi will win the 2018 election; rather, it is about how much interest and buzz can be generated about the process,  said H.A. Hellyer, senior non-resident fellow at the Atlantic Council.  The more public interest, the better - if turnout and interest is minimal, that won t be catastrophic for the authorities, but is certainly not the image they wish to project domestically or internationally, he added. The campaign was inspired by the 2013  Tamaroud , or  Rebellion , petition, that Sisi used as a mandate to topple the Muslim Brotherhood, said Shaaban. The Tamaroud movement encouraged millions of Egyptians to take to the streets demanding the overthrow of Mursi. Sisi then led the military ouster of Mursi after those protests. Organisers says they are already seeing results. What started off with only 10 offices has mushroomed into a large-scale operation with 178 offices nationwide, said Shaaban, and close to half a million likes on the campaign s official Facebook page.  The numbers are changing by the moment,  said parliamentarian Karim Salem, campaign spokesman and co-founder. Organisers say the campaign is run by volunteers and funded by private donations. Egypt s state news agency reported that 14,000 people had signed the petition in the Nile delta province of Al-Beheira. Reuters could not independently confirm these numbers. The petition form lists five reasons why Sisi should seek a second term   cleansing the country of terrorism, completing his megaprojects, ending corruption, education, and protecting its leadership. Even some of Sisi s supporters who helped propel him into power, such as former campaign officials Hazim Abdelazim and Nour al-Huda Zaki, have turned against him over his handling of the economy and security. Critics point to a dispute that saw his government hand over two Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia, touching a nationalistic nerve. Egypt has fought an insurgency waged by an Islamic State affiliate in North Sinai since 2013. Hundreds of members of the security forces have been killed. But the group has begun turning its guns towards the mainland in attacks this year. Sisi has inaugurated mega infrastructure projects he promised would turn around the economy, and the IMF has praised the progress of measures it has backed that are meant to curb deficits and create long term growth. But many Egyptians say they are frustrated with the immediate fallout of reforms. The currency devaluation a year ago has cut the Egyptian pound s value in half   though it has stabilised now - and inflation is just off record highs of above 30 percent. In Shaaban s home district in Cairo, middle-class Sayeda Zeinab, where a petition campaign banner with an image of the smiling president hangs above a main square, Essam Moahmed, a baker, expressed discontent over the economy.  Now things are even more expensive than under the Brotherhood. But people can t stand against Sisi,  he said. Sisi acknowledges the tough economic situation many Egyptians face, saying sacrifices like IMF-backed austerity reforms are needed  so we can take our true place. |

Article 15693 | Date: October 31, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.N. picks Norwegian for Myanmar role as tensions simmer over Rohingya crisis |
 | Content: YANGON (Reuters) - The United Nations named a new interim U.N. resident coordinator for Myanmar on Tuesday, appointing Knut Ostby of Norway to take over the humanitarian role at a time of growing strains with the Myanmar government over the handling of the Rohingya crisis. The appointment of a temporary placeholder was expected after Myanmar blocked an upgrade of the U.N. country chief position. Myanmar s de facto leader, Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, has told diplomats in private meetings that she is frustrated with the United Nations, particularly its human rights arm. Ostby, who has served with the United Nations in a number of hotspots, including Afghanistan and East Timor, will replace Renata Lok-Dessallien, who has completed her term. Some 600,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled to Bangladesh after ethnic violence erupted in Myanmar s northern Rakhine state in late August. Rights monitors and Rohingya refugees say the army and Rakhine Buddhist vigilantes have forced them to flee their homes. U.N. investigators interviewing Rohingyas living in refugee camps near Cox s Bazar said on Friday they had gathered testimony pointing to a  consistent, methodical pattern  of killings, torture, rape and arson. The fact-finding team, led by former Indonesian attorney general Marzuki Darusman, said the death toll from the Myanmar army s crackdown following Rohingya insurgent attacks on Aug. 25 was unknown, but  may turn out to be extremely high . The U.N. team, which was established by the U.N. Human Rights Council in March, renewed its appeal for access to Rakhine state and for talks with the Myanmar government and military to  establish the facts . In the early stages of the crisis, the United Nations described the military campaign as  ethnic cleansing , an accusation rejected by Myanmar, which says its military was engaged in counter-insurgency operations against Rohingya militants behind a series of attacks on security posts. Suu Kyi has said the refugees can return, but thousands  continue to arrive in Bangladesh. Myanmar, an overwhelmingly Buddhist country with small Christian and Muslim minorities, is struggling to emerge from decades of military rule, and Suu Kyi s democratically elected government is engaged in a peace dialogue with members of various armed ethnic groups. |

Article 15698 | Date: October 31, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Thailand's political activity ban stays for now: PM |
 | Content: BANGKOK (Reuters) - Thailand s military government on Tuesday said it will not yet lift a ban on political activity, despite a general election scheduled for next year and growing pressure from political parties to lift it. The ban on political party gatherings has been in place since the military seized power in a 2014 coup but there have been growing calls from all political groups to end the ban. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha cited persistent political divisions and mud-slinging as reasons why the ban should stay.  We will not lift the ban today but don t be frustrated,  Prayuth told reporters after a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday.  Today we are still speaking evil. You must stop this so that everyone is at ease,  Prayuth said, urging all sides to put aside their differences. Earlier this month, Prayuth said Thailand would hold a general election in November 2018 - the news was largely welcomed by investors in Southeast Asia s second-biggest economy. There has been little opposition to junta rule since 2014, partly because authorities have arrested and jailed dozens of critics. The government had said that parties needed to wait until after the funeral of Thailand s late King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who was cremated last week, for a decision on when normal political life will resume. Tensions have been festering in Thailand since 2006 when a coup removed then-Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Since then, the country has witnessed bouts of unrest including deadly street protests. Thailand is divided broadly between those who align themselves with Thaksin and his sister, former Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, whose government was removed in the 2014 coup, and the elite in the capital Bangkok. Thaksin is credited by some as being the first Thai prime minister to tap into the potential of the rural electorate. But he made many enemies among the elite who accuse him of corruption - which he denies. Both Thaksin and Yingluck live abroad. Yingluck fled Thailand in August ahead of a verdict against her in a negligence trial for which she was later found guilty and sentenced to five years in prison. Thaksin fled to avoid a 2008 jail corruption sentence. Politicians from major parties were upset about the decision not to lift the political activity ban on Tuesday.  I want the junta to show some sincerity about the election by lifting the ban,  Sunisa Lertpakawat, a member of Thaksin s Puea Thai Party, told Reuters.  We haven t got much time. |

Article 15741 | Date: November 1, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: China's Xi says hopes to promote relations with North Korea: KCNA |
 | Content: SEOUL/BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese President Xi Jinping replied to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un s congratulatory message on China s Communist Party Congress, saying he hopes to promote ties between the two countries, North Korea s state news agency said on Thursday. The friendly exchange is relatively routine, but it comes as China has come under intense pressure from the United States to do more to rein in the North s missile and nuclear tests, which have raised tensions globally. China has been increasingly frustrated over ally North Korea s weapons tests in defiance of U.N. resolutions, repeatedly calling for restraint and urging all sides to speak and act carefully. Xi s message comes days before U.S. President Donald Trump makes his first official visit to Asia, with North Korea high on the agenda. It follows Tuesday s unexpected agreement between Seoul and Beijing to move beyond a year-long dispute over the deployment of a U.S. anti-missile system in South Korea.  I wish that under the new situation, the Chinese side would make efforts with the DPRK side to promote relations between the two parties and the two countries to sustainable soundness and stable development and thus make a positive contribution to ... defending regional peace and stability and common prosperity,  Xi wrote in the message dated Nov. 1, according to the North s official news agency KCNA. DPRK stands for the Democratic People s Republic of Korea, North Korea s official name. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying did not give details of the message from Xi to Kim but confirmed it had been sent to express thanks for Kim s congratulatory messages. Many countries had sent messages to China over the congress and, to be polite, China had written back to say thank you to them, she added.  I believe this is in the interests of both sides and has important meaning for resolving the present problem we are facing and maintaining regional peace and stability,  Hua told a daily news briefing in Beijing. The message had yet to be carried by Chinese state media as of Thursday afternoon. China and North Korea often exchange diplomatic correspondence and ceremonial letters, although personal messages between the leaders tend to be few. Zhao Tong, a North Korea expert at the Carnegie-Tsinghua Center in Beijing, said the exchange of messages appeared  totally routine , while noting that Kim s congratulatory message was shorter than one sent after the previous Communist Party congress five years ago, when Xi first came to power. After a flurry of activity including a sixth nuclear test on Sept. 3, Pyongyang did not disrupt last month s party congress with another test as some analysts had expected. It has not tested a missile since launching one over Japan on Sept. 15, the longest such lull this year. But Zhao said this was likely due to  technical reasons rather than political reasons .  There are no signs that they are going to give up on additional missile or nuclear tests,  he said. Nam Seong-wook, a professor of North Korea Studies at Korea University in Seoul, said Xi s reply to Kim could be interpreted as  China s strategic ambition to embrace both North Korea and South Korea  ahead of Trump s visits to South Korea and China.  Xi has previously sent messages to Kim, most recently last year when Xi expressed his congratulations for a party congress in North Korea. Neither leader has visited the other s country since assuming power. Kim sent a congratulatory message to Xi last week at the end of China s Communist Party Congress, wishing him  great success  as head of the nation. |

Article 15959 | Date: November 3, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump says he recalls little about meeting where aide spoke of Russia |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump said on Friday he did not remember much about a meeting last year with a former campaign aide who pleaded guilty last month as part of a federal probe into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. election. Asked about a meeting in which aide George Papadopoulos  suggested arranging a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Trump told reporters: “I don’t remember much about that meeting. It was a very unimportant meeting.” According to court documents filed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, Papadopoulos said at the meeting of foreign policy advisers in March 2016 “that he had connections that could help arrange a meeting between then-candidate Trump and President Putin.”  A photograph posted on Trump’s Instagram account shows Papadopoulos sitting at the same table with Trump as well as  Jeff Sessions, now Trump’s attorney general, and several others. Papadopoulos has pleaded guilty to lying to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents about contacts with people who claimed to have ties to top Russian officials, in the first criminal charges alleging links between the Trump campaign and Moscow. His plea was made public this week.        Sessions is under pressure from Senate Democrats to testify again about the Trump campaign’s Russia contacts. In testimony to the Senate Judiciary committee, Sessions has denied knowing anything about contacts between the campaign and Russians or Russian government intermediaries. The president spoke before leaving for a trip to Asia, where his domestic woes are expected to dog him. Trump denies any collusion with Russia and Moscow denies interfering in the 2016 election. Sessions is also under pressure from his boss, who has made clear he thinks the Department of Justice should look into his former presidential rival, Hillary Clinton, and her campaign’s behavior with the Democratic National Committee during the presidential primary race.  Trump told reporters on Friday that many people were unhappy with the Department of Justice, including him. Those comments followed remarks he made during “The Larry O’Connor Show” on WMAL radio in which he lamented not having more say in the department’s work. “The saddest thing is, because I am the president of the United States, I am not supposed to be involved with the Justice Department. I’m not supposed to be involved with the FBI. I’m not supposed to be doing the kind of things I would love to be doing. And I am very frustrated by that,” he said. Trump on Friday repeated his urgings that the Justice Department and FBI investigate Clinton. “Everybody is asking why the Justice Department (and FBI) isn’t looking into all of the dishonesty going on with Crooked Hillary & the Dems,” he said on Twitter. His comments elicited criticism from several U.S. senators. “President Trump’s pressuring of the Justice Department and FBI to pursue cases against his adversaries and calling for punishment before trials take place are totally inappropriate and not only undermine our justice system but erode the American people’s confidence in our institutions,” Republican Senator Bob Corker, who has frequently sparred with Trump, said in a statement. Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein said: “We can’t allow ourselves to become numb to the president of the United States calling on independent law enforcement organizations to investigate his political opponents. That’s characteristic of authoritarian regimes, not democracies, and it needs to stop.” Trump has expressed frustration repeatedly over the Russia investigation, which has overshadowed his administration, at times referring to it as a “hoax” and a “witch hunt.” Federal investigators this week charged Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort and another ex-aide, Rick Gates, with money laundering and other crimes. In a court filing on Friday, Mueller estimated he would need three weeks to present his case against Manafort and Gates if it went to trial. Both men pleaded not guilty. Manafort’s attorney Kevin Downing said in a filing on Friday that he would challenge what he called “evidence improperly obtained by search warrant, subpoena or otherwise.” FBI agents seized documents and other material from Manafort’s Virginia home in a July raid. (This version of the story was corrected to say that Papadopoulos pleaded guilty in October, not November in paragraph one) |

Article 16125 | Date: November 5, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Future Saudi king tightens grip on power with arrests including Prince Alwaleed |
 | Content: RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia s future king has tightened his grip on power through an anti-corruption purge by arresting royals, ministers and investors including billionaire Alwaleed bin Talal who is one of the kingdom s most prominent businessmen. Prince Alwaleed, a nephew of the king and owner of investment firm Kingdom Holding, invests in firms such as Citigroup and Twitter. He was among 11 princes, four ministers and tens of former ministers detained, three senior officials told Reuters on Sunday. The purge against the kingdom s political and business  elite also targeted the head of the National Guard, Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, who was detained and replaced as minister of the powerful National Guard by Prince Khaled bin Ayyaf. The allegations against Prince Alwaleed include money laundering, bribery and extorting officials, one official told Reuters, while Prince Miteb is accused of embezzlement, hiring ghost employees and awarding contracts to his own companies including a $10 billion deal for walkie talkies and bulletproof military gear worth billions of Saudi riyals.  The allegations could not be independently verified and members of the families of those detained could not be reached. News of the purge came soon after King Salman decreed late on Saturday the creation of an anti-corruption committee chaired by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, his 32-year-old favorite son who has amassed power since rising from obscurity three years ago. The new body was given broad powers to investigate cases, issue arrest warrants and travel restrictions, and seize assets.  The homeland will not exist unless corruption is uprooted and the corrupt are held accountable,  the royal decree said. Analysts said the arrests were another pre-emptive measure by the crown prince to remove powerful figures as he exerts control over the world s leading oil exporter. The roundup recalls the palace coup in June through which he ousted his elder cousin, Mohammed bin Nayef, as heir to the throne and interior minister. MbS, as he is known, was expected to follow at least by removing Prince Miteb from leadership of the National Guard, a pivotal power base rooted in the kingdom s tribes. Over the past year, MbS has become the ultimate decision-maker for the kingdom s military, foreign, economic and social policies, causing resentment among parts of the Al Saud dynasty frustrated by his meteoric rise. Saudi Arabia s stock index was dragged down briefly but recovered to close higher as some investors bet the crackdown could bolster reforms in the long run. The royal decree said the arrests were in response to  exploitation by some of the weak souls who have put their own interests above the public interest, in order to, illicitly, accrue money.  The line between public funds and royal money is not always clear in Saudi Arabia, an absolute monarchy ruled by an Islamic system in which most law is not systematically codified and no elected parliament exists. WikiLeaks cables have detailed the huge monthly stipends that every Saudi royal receives as well as various money-making schemes some have used to finance lavish lifestyles. Analysts said the purge aimed to go beyond corruption and aimed to remove potential opposition to Prince Mohammed s ambitious reform agenda, which is widely popular with Saudi Arabia s burgeoning youth population but faces resistance from some of the old guard more comfortable with the kingdom s traditions of incremental change and rule by consensus. In September, the king announced that a ban on women driving would be lifted, while Prince Mohammed is trying to break decades of conservative tradition by promoting public entertainment and visits by foreign tourists. The crown prince has also slashed state spending in some areas and plans a big sale of state assets, including floating part of state oil giant Saudi Aramco [IPO-ARMO.SE] on international markets. Prince Mohammed has also led Saudi Arabia into a two-year-old war in Yemen, where the government says it is fighting Iran-aligned militants, and a row with neighboring Qatar, which it accuses of backing terrorists, a charge Doha denies. Detractors of the crown prince say both moves are dangerous adventurism. The most recent crackdown breaks with the tradition of consensus within the ruling family, wrote James Dorsey, a senior fellow at Singapore s S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies.  Prince Mohammed, rather than forging alliances, is extending his iron grip to the ruling family, the military, and the National Guard to counter what appears to be more widespread opposition within the family as well as the military to his reforms and the Yemen war,  he said. Scholar Joseph Kechichian said the interests of the Al Saud dynasty, however, would remain protected.  Both King Salman and heir apparent Mohammed bin Salman are fully committed to them. What they wish to instill, and seem determined to execute, is to modernize the ruling establishment, not just for the 2030 horizon but beyond it too,  he said. Many ordinary Saudis praised the crackdown as long-awaited. A Saudi official said former Riyadh Governor Prince Turki bin Abdullah was detained on accusations of corruption in the Riyadh Metro project and taking advantage of his influence to award contracts to his own companies. Former Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf, a board member of national oil giant Saudi Aramco, was also detained, accused of embezzlement related to the expansion of Mecca s Grand Mosque and taking advantage of his position and inside information to purchase lands, the official added. Other detainees include ousted Economy Minister Adel Fakieh, who once played a major role in drafting MbS  reforms, and Khalid al-Tuwaijiri, who headed the Royal Court under the late King Abdullah. People on Twitter applauded the arrests of certain ministers, with some comparing them to  the night of the long knives , a violent purge of political leaders in Nazi Germany in 1934. Bakr bin Laden, chairman of the big Saudi Binladin construction group, and Alwaleed al-Ibrahim, owner of the MBC television network, were also detained. At least some of the detainees were held at the opulent Ritz-Carlton hotel in the diplomatic quarter of Riyadh, said sources in contact with the government and guests whose plans had been disrupted. The hotel s exterior gate was shuttered on Sunday morning and guards turned away a Reuters reporter, saying it had been closed for security reasons, although private cars and ambulances were seen entering through a rear entrance. The hotel and an adjacent facility were the site of an international conference promoting Saudi Arabia as an investment destination just 10 days ago attended by at least one of those now being held for questioning. The detentions follow a crackdown in September on political opponents of Saudi Arabia s rulers that saw some 30 clerics, intellectuals and activists detained. Prince Alwaleed, a flamboyant character, has sometimes used his prominence as an investor to aim barbs at the kingdom s rulers.  In December 2015, he called then-U.S. presidential candidate Donald Trump a  disgrace to all America  and demanded on Twitter that he withdraw from the election. Trump responded by tweeting:  Dopey Prince @Alwaleed_Talal wants to control our U.S. politicians with daddy s money. Can t do it when I get elected.  His father, Prince Talal, is considered one of the most vocal supporters of reform in the Al Saud family, having pressed for a constitutional monarchy decades ago. |

Article 16173 | Date: November 5, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Riding high, Xi looks to soothe Trump as U.S. pressures China |
 | Content: BEIJING (Reuters) - When they met at U.S. President Donald Trump s Mar-a-Lago estate in April, China s President Xi Jinping found a way to charm the mercurial former real estate mogul. Trump hailed the  good chemistry  of the sunny summit in Florida and predicted  lots of very potentially bad problems will be going away.   The  bromance  is set to continue when Xi returns the favor by laying on a lavish welcome for Trump s visit starting on Wednesday. Xi has grown more powerful since their last meeting, while Trump is under a political cloud after his former campaign manager was indicted in an intensifying investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.   Chinese experts say Beijing has learned to manage Trump, a real-estate mogul who had never held elective office before becoming president, and whose administration in its first 10 months has been turbulent.   China has an objective view of him. We re going to make him feel comfortable,  said Wang Yiwei, a professor of international relations at Renmin University.  He may end up being re-elected. We need to look at this from a long-term perspective, and not view him as an  other  or a joke.  Trump clearly respects Xi. In a congratulatory phone call, Trump hailed the  extraordinary elevation  of Xi, whose political thoughts were enshrined in the Communist Party s constitution last month during a congress marking the start of his second term.  Aboard Air Force One on his way to Asia, Trump cited record stock market levels, low unemployment and Islamic State  virtually defeated in the Middle East  as evidence of his own success.  (Xi) knows that and he respects that,  Trump said, adding trade is still an irritant in ties.  I think he s viewing us as very, very strong and also very friendly. Look we have to do better with trade with China because it s a one way street right now. It has been for many years. And we will.   STATE-PLUS  China s ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, said Trump will receive a  state visit-plus  experience in Beijing. It s unclear what the  plus  means. Trump is expected to go to the Forbidden City and participate in an inspection of Chinese troops, though China has released few other details. The  protocol will let Trump  rejoice in grandiosity , important to keeping relations stable, said Teng Jianqun, head of American Studies at Foreign Ministry think-tank China Institute for International Studies.  We must seize upon his special characteristics, such as liking instant gratification, and set up some things that bring immediate results,  he said. On the commercial front, that means a slew of deals - and worries among some in the U.S. business community that the transactional Trump will be placated by a handful of contract wins instead of resolving long-standing complaints over discriminatory Chinese policies and market access restrictions. [L4N1N304G] Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zheng Zeguang told reporters on Friday that China would  create a good atmosphere  with informal activities for the two presidents, so they have ample time to talk about important issues. Zheng said that at the April summit, Trump and his wife Melania had extended an  extremely warm, friendly and thoughtful  reception to Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan.  The Chinese people demand that courtesy be repaid in kind,  he said. Trump is a popular figure for many in China, who admire his business acumen; he is not the divisive figure he is in the United States and its allies in Europe and elsewhere.  The WeChat account of the ruling Communist Party s official People s Daily marked China s announcement of his visit with a picture of a beaming Trump and the headline  Trump s coming!  A contrast between the two presidents was set at the start of the year.  Days ahead of Trump taking office, Xi was the keynote speaker at the World Economic Forum in Davos, offering a vigorous defense of globalization. Trump formally withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership his first week in office, distancing America from its Asian allies.  One Beijing-based Western diplomat said Xi s strong and confident vision for China contrasts with perceptions that Trump often seems to pick arguments. But not with China. Trump in office put aside his grievances about China s trade and currency practices, aired vociferously during the campaign, to get China behind his strategy of punishing sanctions on North Korea for its escalating missile and nuclear tests. And Beijing accommodated him when he grew frustrated. Days after Trump s Sept. 4 tweet that the United States was considering  stopping all trade with any country doing business with North Korea,  Beijing ordered North Korean companies operating within its borders to shut down, banned its exports of textiles and reduced China s oil exports to the North. But with North Korea occupying most of the Trump administration s attention in Asia, China s construction of military facilities on artificial islands in disputed waters of the South China Sea has seemingly fallen off the radar. Beijing does still get irritated about U.S. navy  freedom of navigation  patrols there, which have continued under Trump.  Trump is very popular with the (Chinese) military,  said a Chinese official with ties to the military, speaking on condition of anonymity.  It s great for China that the United States is in chaos. It means we don t have to worry about them challenging us.  Trump s 12-day trip to Asia   the longest by a U.S. president in a quarter-century - will give him a chance to reassure friends and allies in the region, who have expressed uncertainty about his  America First  policies.  Tillerson has already signaled the limits of Washington s patience with China. Ahead of a trip to India last month, Tillerson said that  China, while rising alongside India, has done so less responsibly, at times undermining the international, rules-based order,  and he criticized China for its  predatory economics  and its  provocative actions in the South China Sea . At last month s party congress, Xi laid out a vision for a prosperous and assertive China taking a bigger place on the global stage. The congress left China with  greater confidence and lung power, more unhurried in its dealings with the United States,  Wang Wen, president of Renmin University s Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, wrote in a front page commentary on Friday in the overseas edition of the People s Daily. |

Article 16412 | Date: November 8, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Democrats ride grassroots wave to major statehouse gains |
 | Content: (Reuters) - Democrats claimed historic gains in Virginia’s statehouse and booted Republicans from state and local office across the United States on Tuesday, in the party’s first big wave of victories since Republican Donald Trump’s won the White House a year ago. Democrats must figure out how to turn that momentum to their  advantage in November 2018 elections, when control of the U.S. Congress and scores of statehouses will be at stake. From coast to coast, Democratic victories showed grassroots resistance to Trump rallying the party’s base, while independent and conservative voters appeared frustrated with the unpopular Republican leadership in Washington.  Democrats won this year’s races for governor in Virginia and New Jersey, but successes in legislative and local races nationwide may have revealed more about where the party stands a year into Trump’s administration. Unexpectedly massive Democratic gains in Virginia’s statehouse surprised even the most optimistic party loyalists in a state that has trended Democratic in recent years but remains a top target for both parties in national elections.  “This is beyond our wildest expectations, to be honest,” said Catherine Vaughan, co-founder of Flippable, one of several new startup progressive groups rebuilding the party at the grassroots level. With several races still too close to call, Democrats were close to flipping, or splitting, control of the Virginia House of Delegates, erasing overnight a two-to-one Republican majority. Democratic Lieutenant Governor Ralph Northam also defeated Republican Ed Gillespie by nearly nine percentage points in what had seemed a closer contest for Virginia’s governor’s mansion, a year after Democrat Hillary Clinton carried the state by five points in the presidential election. The losing candidate had employed Trump-style campaign tactics that highlighted divisive issues such as immigration, although the president did not join him on the campaign trail. In New Jersey, a Democratic presidential stronghold, voters replaced a two-term Republican governor with a Democrat and increased the party’s majorities in the state legislature. Democrats notched additional wins in a Washington state Senate race that gave the party full control of the state government and in Republican-controlled Georgia, where Democrats picked up three seats in special state legislative elections. “This was the first chance that the voters got to send a message to Donald Trump and they took advantage of it,” John Feehery, a Republican strategist in Washington, said by phone. The gains suggested to some election analysts that Democrats could retake the U.S. House of Representatives next year. Republicans control both the House and Senate along with the White House. Dave Wasserman, who analyzes U.S. House and statehouse races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, called the Virginia results a “tidal wave.” Even after Tuesday’s gains, however, Democrats are completely locked out of power in 26 state governments. Republicans control two-thirds of U.S. legislative chambers. Desperate to rebuild, national Democrats this year showed newfound interest in legislative contests and races even farther down the ballot. The Democratic National Committee successfully invested in mayoral races from St. Petersburg, Florida, to Manchester, New Hampshire. “If there is a lesson to be taken from yesterday, it is that we need to make sure that we are competing everywhere, because Democrats can win,” DNC Chairman Tom Perez said on a media call. Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee executive director Jessica Post said national party leaders must remain focused on local races, even in a congressional year. “We don’t focus enough on the state level, and that is why we are in the place we are,” she said. “But when we do, we win.” |

Article 16547 | Date: November 8, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Fog stops Trump facing-off North Korea across DMZ |
 | Content: SEOUL (Reuters) - After months of fiery rhetoric and rising tensions, U.S. President Donald Trump s secret attempt to personally face off with North Korea across the heavily fortified demilitarized zone (DMZ) on Wednesday was defeated by fog and mist. Helicopters carrying Trump and an entourage of staff, media, and security forces were turned back just minutes from the DMZ, thwarting a plan that had been in the works since before the president left on his trip through Asia.  He s actually pretty frustrated,  Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said of Trump. Often clad in photo-friendly bomber jackets, all U.S. presidents since Ronald Reagan have visited the DMZ except for George H.W. Bush, who toured as vice president. In April, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence visited the DMZ, also sporting a bomber jacket, so that the North Koreans could see  our resolve in my face . Trump s attempt for his own visit had been in the works for some time, despite previous denials from the White House, including late last month by a senior official who called visiting the DMZ  a little bit of a clich . Journalists accompanying Trump were summoned earlier than expected Wednesday morning.  This is where we re going,  Sanders said, holding up a piece of notepaper on which the letters  DMZ  were scrawled. Just after 7 a.m. (2200 GMT Tuesday) the motorcade left Trump s hotel in downtown Seoul, arriving 10 minutes later at Yongsan Garrison, a U.S. military base. Helicopters carrying Trump and his entourage took off from a sports field on the base, camouflage-clad men seated at the back of the aircraft. Weaving through the dense fog that shrouded Seoul s skyscrapers, the helicopters were only minutes away from landing at the DMZ when they turned back to the base.  There wasn t enough visibility to land,  Sanders said.  It would have been really dangerous, and our guys pulled back.   The trip was finalized during bilateral meetings between Trump and South Korea President Moon Jae-in on Tuesday, officials said. When Trump told Moon he was interested in visiting the DMZ, the South Korean president not only gave his blessing, but said he would meet Trump there.  It would be good for you to go. If you go, I will go with you,  said Moon, quoted by a presidential Blue House official. Moon waited about 30 minutes for Trump at the DMZ on Wednesday, having driven part of the way to the fortified border by road, an option not open to Trump because of security concerns. As he waited for a second chance back at Yongsan, Trump sat in his limousine, working on a draft of his speech to be given at South Korea s National Assembly later that day   a speech which saw Trump return to his bellicose attack of North Korea and its leader Kim Jong Un.  The world cannot tolerate the menace of a rogue regime that threatens it with nuclear devastation,  Trump later declared in his speech. But as he sat in his car there was to be no second chance to look across the DMZ to North Korea, as the fog, mixed with yellow dust blown in from China, lingered late into the morning. On Wednesday, before news of the aborted trip broke, an editorial in China Daily, a state-run English-language newspaper, praised Trump s previously announced decision not to visit and North Korea s restraint in not carrying out further missile or nuclear tests.  The restraint both Washington and Pyongyang have demonstrated so far...is a hopeful sign that both prefer to find a peaceful solution to their predicaments,  the editorial said. |

Article 16701 | Date: November 9, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Qatar retools after boycott by top auto parts supplier Dubai |
 | Content: DOHA (Reuters) - In a dusty industrial zone in the south of Doha where the city s auto repair shops are clustered, one unlucky blue Hyundai Santa Fe has been sitting with its front smashed in since June 5, the day four Arab nations announced a boycott of Qatar.  The SUV has fallen foul of the tiny state s dependence on Jebel Ali in neighboring Dubai, the first port of call for car companies distributing spare parts across the region but no longer an option for Doha since its neighbors severed ties. The United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia accused Qatar of supporting terrorism, which it denies.   With its traditional land, sea and air trade routes cut off, Doha has had to scramble to find new suppliers to replace everything from Saudi Arabian milk to Emirati engine oil. It also has had to quickly pull together complicated new logistics, involving a mix of new air and maritime routes and use of nearby ports in Oman and Kuwait for re-export. In many ways it has been a success. The boycott, which entered its sixth month this week, touches life on the streets only in minor ways, with Turkish dairy and Iranian vegetables taking the place of Arab foodstuffs on store shelves. Items are generally available and prices only modestly higher. One exception has been auto parts, residents say. In car-obsessed Qatar, where status symbol Bentleys and BMWs zip down the Doha corniche at night, spare parts that once arrived in days from Dubai can now take weeks or even months, leaving vehicles languishing in shops and drivers frustrated. A manager at one American automobile dealership in the industrial area, who asked not to be named, described the situation as desperate.  You have customers coming in and screaming, saying  my car has been here two to three months.  And you re just helpless. What do you say?   Although most imports have recovered to near pre-crisis levels after dropping sharply on the boycott, auto imports in September were 40 percent lower than their year-earlier level.         The manager said attempts to re-route orders from Jebel Ali to Oman and Kuwait for re-export were abandoned because paying two sets of customs fees and additional shipping spiked costs 20 to 40 percent. The situation has improved in recent weeks after the dealership moved to import directly by air from the United States, he said, but the process took months to set up.  Until ten days ago we didn t have batteries or oil. We were taking batteries out of the new cars.  Some 58 percent of imports to Qatar were either produced in or shipped from the four boycotting countries in 2016, according to a Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics estimate. How much of that is autos and auto parts was not possible to determine, but two parts businesses in Doha said about 80 percent of their supplies previously came through Jebel Ali.  The boycott has driven a campaign to make the country less dependent on its Gulf Arab rivals even if the boycott ends. Hundreds of cows have been flown in to scale up dairy farms that traditionally competed with Saudi Arabia, trade ties have increased with Turkey and Iran, and a draft law was passed that would grant greater trade protection to local producers. The legislation is still pending.  Nobody will buy from Dubai even if it opens up. Why would we let Dubai take any profit from us?  said a spare parts dealer whose goods are now sourced from Vietnam and Korea.  At a high-end garage where a cream Porsche 911 Turbo awaited repair, the general manager said his shop has in recent months established direct import links with European suppliers,  cutting down average delivery time to about three weeks, about twice as long as before the boycott.  It s taught all of us how to import because we have to find new sources ... even if this story ends and the blockade is lifted, we won t go back to buying from Dubai,  he said. |

Article 16724 | Date: November 10, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: EU wants Brexit money this month, Davis seeks 'political' fix |
 | Content: BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union told Britain on Friday to spell out what it will pay Brussels for when it leaves the bloc in 2019 or face more delay in talks on future trade ties that are vital for British business. After negotiations in Brussels, the first in a month, Brexit Secretary David Davis said during a news conference with his EU counterpart Michel Barnier it was time for  political discussions  to break a deadlock that has left both sides frustrated about a lack of progress.  Political  talks has in the past been code for Prime Minister Theresa May addressing fellow EU leaders directly, over the heads of Barnier and the EU executive, in order to square a circle in which Brussels will not address the future without a firm line from London on settling what the EU sees as past debts and May will not settle without assurances about future trade. May is due at a Brussels summit on Dec. 14-15 but EU officials insist that any breakthrough must be agreed at lower level first and weeks in advance to let the other 27 members agree a joint position. Progress in December is important for May as businesses seek clarity by the new year, when many will take investment decisions dependent on conditions after Brexit. A British budget due on Nov. 22 will, however, complicate the task for May in persuading hardline Brexit supporters of any need to meet Brussels  demand for tens of billions of euros to cover liabilities incurred in 44 years of EU membership.  Barnier stressed that he was not looking for a number from London but for a clearer undertaking than May gave in September on how far Britain would  honor its obligations .  It is absolutely vital if we are to achieve sufficient progress in December,  Barnier told reporters, adding not all details had to be settled but there needed to be  sincere and real progress . The clarifications should come within the next two weeks, Barnier said:  If that s not the case, then we will continue and that will pull back the opening of discussions on the future.  He said progress had to be made on all three key issues of the divorce talks - the money, the rights of EU citizens in Britain and how to avoid a  hard border  with EU-member Ireland. Davis said both sides made substantial technical progress on all the issues that need to be addressed.  This is now about moving into the political discussions that would enable both of us to move forward,  he said. British discussions with other national governments do not appear to have breached the unity of the 27 for now. And German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron, the bloc s most powerful leaders, have taken a particularly tough line on the money issue in Brussels. The EU executive has said Britain will owe it around 60 billion euros when it leaves. London has challenged the legal reasoning behind that but has not offered its own figure. One thing that was clarified on Friday was exactly when Britain would leave the Union. The EU had previously defined  Brexit hour  as  midnight  on March 29, 2019, exactly two years after May triggered the process. But it was unclear whether that meant midnight in Brussels or London. May and Barnier made statements on Friday stating that Brexit will happen in London at 11 p.m. (2300 GMT) on Friday, March 29. That will be midnight in the EU capital.     Davis repeated the declaration made by May in September in Florence that EU countries will not need to pay more or receive less for the remainder of the current EU long-term budget ending in December 2020:  The UK will honor the commitments we made during the period of our membership,  he said. Barnier said both sides moved ahead on citizens  rights and that Britain gave  useful  clarifications on a process through which EU citizens could obtain a  settled status  but the EU needed reassurances on how such a system would work. He said issues related to family reunification, the right to export social security benefits and the role of the European Court of Justice still need work. On the problems of avoiding a  hard border  between the British province of Northern Ireland and EU-member Ireland, Davis and Barnier said more work must be done. |

Article 16912 | Date: November 12, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Britain won't offer a new figure on Brexit bill to unlock talks: minister |
 | Content: LONDON (Reuters) - Britain will not offer a figure or a formula for how much it believes it owes the European Union, Brexit minister David Davis said on Sunday, after the EU demanded that London spell out its approach to the final bill to unblock talks. With no movement in the negotiations to unravel more than 40 years of union, Britain may miss a December deadline to move the talks to a discussion of future trade ties, which businesses say is vital for them to make investment decisions. Both sides are frustrated by the lack of progress, and last week the EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, said Britain had two weeks to spell out how far it would  honour its obligations  to break the deadlock. But Davis told Sky News the EU had agreed Britain would not need to offer  a number or a formula  for the financial deal when London accepted the bloc s schedule for the talks - first a discussion about the divorce and second, about future ties.  In every negotiation, each side tries to control the timetable. The real deadline on this is, of course, December,  Davis said, referring to the next EU summit, taking place in Brussels on Dec. 14-15, when Britain hopes the bloc will launch the next phase of the talks.  (British taxpayers) would not want me to just come along and just give away billions of pounds. So we ve been very, very careful, and it s taking time and we will take our time to get to the right answer.     Prime Minister Theresa May says she cannot offer a figure for the financial settlement until her government knows what the future relationship will be. But she also does not want to inflame Brexit campaigners who have suggested Britain walk away. James Dyson, the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner and a Brexit supporter, said he did not blame the government for the lack of progress.  The problem is with the people we are negotiating with. I think that demanding billions and billions to leave is quite outrageous, and demanding it before we ve negotiated anything is outrageous,  Dyson told the BBC.  So I would walk away.  The so-called Brexit bill is not the only difficult hurdle in the talks so far. The two sides must also reach agreement on the UK border with EU member Ireland - something that Irish officials say is still a long way off. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said he would not threaten to use a veto on the Brexit talks  at this stage , but Dublin has called on London to go beyond its promise that a  hard  border between Ireland and Northern Ireland will not return. Both Britain and the EU say they are ready for a  no deal  - a message reiterated by the bloc s Barnier in the French weekly Journal du Dimanche, where he also called on Britain to detail which financial commitments it would honor.  Theresa May has committed to paying the contributions of 2019 and 2020, as well as other commitments, without specifying which ones,  Barnier told Journal du Dimanche.  The European taxpayer should not pay the price of a decision made ... by the United Kingdom. |

Article 17397 | Date: November 16, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: India's Modi remains overwhelmingly popular, says Pew poll |
 | Content: NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Nearly nine out of 10 Indians hold a favorable opinion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and more than two-thirds are satisfied with the direction he is taking the country, a Pew survey has found, two years before he heads into a general election. Modi s Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition won the biggest parliamentary majority in three decades in a 2014 election and the poll by the U.S.-based research center showed that his personal ratings remain high. Critics have accused hardline Hindu groups linked to the ruling coalition of promoting a partisan agenda, including targeting minority Muslims, since he came to power.  They have also blamed Modi for slowing economic growth and for failing to generate the hundreds of thousands of jobs needed for young people joining the workforce each month.  But the Pew poll found that 88 percent of Indians held a favorable view of Modi, a shade higher than the 87 percent who gave him a thumbs-up in 2015, a year after he swept to power promising to transform India into a high-growth economy. Such high ratings are unusual for political leaders three years into office in south Asia, where governments are more often voted out than retained as people become frustrated with broken campaign promises. Modi s favorable rating is 31 percentage points higher than that of Sonia Gandhi, the leader of the main opposition Congress party, and is 30 points more than that for her son, Rahul Gandhi, who is expected to take over the party leadership.  Three years into Modi s five-year tenure, the honeymoon period for his administration may be over but the public s love affair with current conditions in India is even more intense,  Pew said in comments on its findings. The survey was conducted in February and March, a few months after Modi withdrew most high-value bank notes in a shock move aimed at illegal wealth, but which put millions of people in difficulty as cash was sucked out of the economy. Modi defended the measure as an attack on the rich hiding their wealth from the taxman and said gains would come to the poor. Economic growth eased to a three-year low in the June quarter and experts said part of the reason was that the withdrawal of most of the currency had hurt consumer demand in a largely cash-driven economy. A poorly implemented goods-and-services tax that went into effect in July has further unsettled small businesses, many of which are part of the bedrock of the BJP s political base. But the poll found that more than 80 percent of those surveyed said economic conditions were good, up 19 percentage points since just before the 2014 election.  Overall, seven-in-ten Indians are now satisfied with the way things are going in the country. This positive assessment of India s direction has nearly doubled since 2014,  Pew said. The next general election is due in 2019.  But several states are voting for new assemblies over the next few months including Modi s home state of Gujarat. |

Article 17401 | Date: November 16, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Merkel's EU ally says more confident about resolving Brexit problems |
 | Content: LONDON (Reuters) - Manfred Weber, a leading lawmaker in the European Parliament, said on Wednesday he was more confident about Britain and the European Union ironing out difficulties in the Brexit talks. Weber, an ally of German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the parliament, spoke after meeting Theresa May in London but would not say whether the British prime minister had signalled she was ready to move on a financial settlement with the EU. Negotiations to unravel more than 40 years of union have stalled over the divorce bill, with EU officials increasingly frustrated that Britain has not detailed its approach to settling what it owes the bloc when it leaves in March 2019.  After my meetings here in London my main message is I am more optimistic, there is progress ... That is the most important thing because the perspective from a European point of view towards London was in the last weeks not so clear,  Weber told a news conference. Asked whether there was any movement on the financial settlement, he declined to comment on what he described as private discussions with May. A spokesman for May said in a statement that she and Weber had discussed an  implementation period  to smooth Britain s departure from the bloc, and that Weber had asked what  this would look like in practice .  The Secretary of State for Exiting the EU (Brexit minister David Davis, who was also present) outlined the need to avoid a cliff-edge (exit) - including for the stability of the financial sector across Europe,  the spokesman said. |

Article 17859 | Date: November 22, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. pressed Saudis to ease Yemen blockade: sources |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson asked Saudi Arabia to ease its blockade of Yemen, two sources said, just days before the Saudi-led military coalition announced on Wednesday it would let aid flow through the Yemeni port of Hodeidah and allow U.N. flights to the capital.  It was not clear if pressure from Washington was the direct cause of the Saudi change of heart but the request from Tillerson to Saudi Arabia s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, was one of several U.S. attempts this month to have Riyadh soften its hawkish foreign policy.  Tillerson asked for a loosening of the blockade on Yemen during a roughly 45-minute phone call at the beginning of this week, according to a source familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. R.C. Hammond, a top adviser to Tillerson, confirmed the exchange with Prince Mohammed. The secretary of state  has brought the request to (the) Saudis  attention several times over the past months,  he added.      The Trump administration, according to U.S. officials and a European diplomat, also pressed the Saudis to allow Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri to return to Beirut after he flew to Riyadh on Nov.4 and abruptly announced his resignation. The efforts to take the edge off Saudi Arabia s foreign policy reflect growing U.S. concern about Riyadh s direction despite high-profile attempts by President Donald Trump to improve relations with the longtime U.S. ally.              Publicly, Trump, his top aides and senior Saudi officials have hailed what they say is a major improvement in U.S.-Saudi ties compared with relations under former President Barack Obama, who upset the Saudis by sealing a nuclear deal with their arch-foe Iran. Privately, however, U.S. diplomats and intelligence analysts   express growing dismay over Riyadh s foreign policy, especially toward Yemen and Lebanon, as Saudi Arabia aims to contain Iranian influence.      It is my understanding that the administration is frustrated. There has been of course varying degrees of frustration from different members of the administration,  U.S. Senator Todd Young said of the situation in Yemen.  Young, a Republican member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spoke before the Saudi-led military coalition s decision was announced on Wednesday.         The coalition, which is fighting Houthi rebels, said it would allow humanitarian aid access through Hodeidah and U. N. flights to the capital Sanaa, more than two weeks after blockading the country to stop the flow of arms from Iran. Yemen, in civil war and under bombardment by a Saudi-led coalition, faces a deep humanitarian crisis and aid workers warn of famine if the blockade were not lifted.                   A senior Saudi official told Reuters that even before Tillerson and Prince Mohammed spoke recently, senior White House officials had communicated to the Saudi ambassador in Washington the importance of taking those two steps.  They stressed the importance of addressing the humanitarian situation in Yemen and we said that we understood and that the closures were temporary while we work on a comprehensive aid and access plan,  the official said. An administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that White House and National Security Council officials worked on easing the blockade with senior Saudi officials, including Prince Mohammed and his younger brother Khalid, the Saudi ambassador to the United States.    Much of the U.S.-Saudi relationship, multiple U.S. officials say, is conducted in a tight circle and led by Trump s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, who has established a direct channel with Prince Mohammed. Kushner  did not oppose  the pressure on the Saudis and United Arab Emirates to ease humanitarian suffering in Yemen, said one U.S. official. But the official added:  In no way does this change the position that Jared and the Crown Prince evidently share that the main objective is reversing Iranian influence in Yemen and elsewhere.         On Lebanon, the U.S. message to Saudi Arabia about Hariri was conveyed in statements by Tillerson and in private conversations between U.S. and Saudi officials. Those officials included the Saudi state minister for Gulf affairs, Thamer al-Sabhan, who was in Washington recently, a senior administration official said.  We ve encouraged...the Saudis that it will be good for Lebanon s political stability for Hariri to return back to Beirut as soon as is practical,  the official said last week.     Hariri has since returned to Lebanon and shelved his decision to resign as prime minister, easing a crisis that had deepened tensions in the Middle East. Top Lebanese officials have said Saudi Arabia forced Hariri to quit and held him in the kingdom. Riyadh and Hariri deny this. |

Article 18391 | Date: November 28, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Senior Saudi prince freed in $1 billion settlement agreement: official |
 | Content: RIYADH (Reuters) - Senior Saudi Arabian prince Miteb bin Abdullah, once seen as a leading contender to the throne, has been freed after agreeing to pay over $1 billion to settle corruption allegations against him, a Saudi official said on Wednesday. Miteb, 65, son of the late King Abdullah and former head of the elite National Guard, was among dozens of royal family members, high officials and senior businessmen rounded up this month in a crackdown on graft that has strengthened the power of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The official, who is involved in the crackdown and spoke on condition of anonymity, said Miteb was released on Tuesday after reaching  an acceptable settlement agreement . The official said he believed the agreed sum to be the equivalent of over $1 billion.  It is understood that the settlement included admitting corruption involving known cases,  the official said, without giving details. According to the official, Prince Miteb was accused of embezzlement, hiring ghost employees and awarding contracts to his own firms, including a deal for walkie talkies and bulletproof military gear. Prince Miteb is the first senior figure known to be released among those detained. Around 200 people in total have been questioned in the crackdown, authorities said earlier this month. The allegations, which include kickbacks, inflating government contracts, extortion and bribery, could not be independently verified. Saudi authorities, who estimate they could eventually recover around $100 billion of illicit funds, have been working on reaching agreements with suspects detained at Riyadh s luxurious Ritz Carlton hotel, asking them to hand over assets and cash in return for their freedom. Apart from Miteb, the Saudi official said that at least three other suspects had finalised settlement agreements and that the public prosecutor had decided to release several individuals.  The prosecutor has decided to put at least five people on trial, the official said without disclosing their identities. The fate of billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, chairman of investment firm Kingdom Holding 4280.SE and one of Saudi Arabia s most prominent international businessmen, was not known.  Kingdom issued a statement earlier this month saying it was continuing to operate normally but has not responded to queries about his status since he was detained early this month. Two Saudi sources told Reuters that Prince Alwaleed has so far refused to reach a settlement and had asked for access to his lawyer in order to fight allegations against him. Relatives, his lawyer and officials in his office could not be contacted to comment.   Saudi Arabia s stock market .TASI, where many investors have been alarmed by the corruption probe, rose after news of the settlements by Prince Miteb and others. The main index was trading 0.4 percent higher around midday on Wednesday. The settlements may mean authorities can soon wind down parts of the probe, reducing the risk of damage to the economy through the freezing of hundreds of bank accounts, and easing the danger that firms linked to detainees could be affected. Officials from Prince Miteb s office could not be reached for comment about his release, and it was unclear if he was able to move freely or whether he would be put under house arrest. An acquaintance of the family said earlier on his Twitter account that Prince Miteb was receiving brothers and sons at his palace in Riyadh.  The arrests of royals and top businessmen have been welcomed by many Saudis who are frustrated by corruption, but the crackdown is also seen by many people as a pre-emptive step by Prince Mohammed to remove any possible challenge to his control over the world s top oil exporting country. The round-up follows a meticulously planned palace coup in June through which Prince Mohammed ousted his elder cousin Prince Mohammed bin Nayef as heir to the throne. Prince Miteb, as overlord of the 100,000-strong National Guard, represented the last great competing power center left after the toppling of Prince Mohammed bin Nayef. In September, religious and intellectual critics of the government were jailed. |

Article 18410 | Date: November 28, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. general sees no change in Pakistan behavior despite Trump tough line |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. general in Afghanistan said on Tuesday that he had not seen a change in Pakistan s support for militants so far, despite President Donald Trump taking a tougher line against Islamabad. U.S. officials have long been frustrated by what they see as Pakistan s reluctance to act against groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on Pakistani soil to launch attacks on neighboring Afghanistan. In August, Trump outlined a new strategy for the war in Afghanistan, chastising Pakistan over its alleged support for Afghan militants. He accused Pakistan of harboring  agents of chaos  and providing safe havens to militant groups waging an insurgency against a U.S.-backed government in Kabul. U.S. official expressed hope that relations between the two countries could improve after a kidnapped U.S.-Canadian couple and their three children were freed in Pakistan in October. The couple was abducted in neighboring Afghanistan.   We have been very direct and very clear with the Pakistanis... we have not seen those changes implemented yet,  General John Nicholson told reporters.  We are hoping to see those changes, we are hoping to work together with the Pakistanis going forward to eliminate terrorists who are crossing  the border, Nicholson said.  He said that he believed that senior Taliban leaders were based in Pakistan, while the lower-level leadership was in Afghanistan.  Nicholson added that he agreed with other senior U.S. officials that Pakistan s main spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) directorate, had ties to the Haqqani network militant group.  The United States in 2012 designated the Pakistan-based Haqqani network as a terrorist organization.  Pakistan says it has done a great deal to help the United States in tracking down terrorists. The four-star general said he had seen evidence of relations between Iran and the Taliban in western Afghanistan and was closely tracking it. The United States has sent more than 3,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan as a part of Trump s South Asia strategy. Nicholson said over 1,000 troops would be advising Afghan troops at the battalion level, putting them closer to the fighting and at greater risk. Nicholson gave an optimistic view of the situation, saying he believed  we are on our way to a win.   U.S. officials have made similar statements during the course of the 16-year-old war, but the situation according to many U.S. officials remains in a  stalemate.  According to a recent report by a U.S. government watchdog, the Taliban had increased the amount of territory it has influence over or controls in Afghanistan in the past six months. The figures are a sign of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country, even as the United States has committed more troops. |

Article 18708 | Date: November 30, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Expect more war, hunger, Islamist violence in 2018 -Geneva think-tank |
 | Content: GENEVA (Reuters) - Humanitarian crises around the world will worsen next year with no let-up in African civil wars, near-famines in conflict-ridden regions and the threat of Islamist violence, a Geneva-based think-tank predicted in a report published on Thursday. The report by ACAPS, a non-profit venture that supports humanitarian aid workers with daily monitoring and analysis of 150 countries, examined the anticipated needs of 18 countries in 2018 and found little to cheer.  If 2017 did not look good, predictions for 2018 are no better: violence and insecurity are likely to deteriorate in Afghanistan, Democratic Republic of Congo, Libya, Ethiopia, Mali, Somalia, and Syria next year,  ACAPS director Lars Peter Nissen wrote in the report. Next year Ethiopia will join northeastern Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen as places at risk of famine, said the report, entitled 'Humanitarian Overview: An analysis of key crises into 2018'. here In a separate report, the U.S.-funded Famine Early Warning Systems Network said an estimated 76 million people across 45 countries were likely to need food aid in 2018, driven by conflict, an 18-month-old drought in the Horn of Africa and forecasts for below average rains in Africa s spring next year.  Rather than bringing stability, the prospect of elections in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, South Sudan and Venezuela is expected to exacerbate tensions and fuel violence, the ACAPS report said.  Islamic extremism will also continue to cause death and conflict, the report said. Despite the defeat of Islamic State in its main strongholds in Iraq, the group is expected to continue improvised attacks throughout the country to destabilise the government, as well as gaining strength and resources in southern Libya. Islamic State is also likely to increase its toehold in the Puntland region of Somalia, impacting the civilian population and clashing with its bigger regional rival Al Shabaab, which will increase the lethality of its own attacks. ACAPS said Islamist armed groups are also expected to take advantage of the withdrawal of government troops from central Mali, gaining local recruits and further influence, while in Afghanistan the Taliban will consolidate rural strongholds and increased opium production will boost funding for armed groups. The fragmentation of armed groups in Central African Republic is expected to worsen the violence there, sending more refugees into Cameroon and Democratic Republic of Congo, where President Joseph Kabila is unlikely to leave power until 2019, fuelling frustration and violent protest, the report said.  Militia groups previously focused on local grievances will likely become increasingly frustrated by the national, political, and socioeconomic situation and are likely to increase violence, particularly against government forces and institutions,  the report said. |

Article 18825 | Date: December 1, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Pleas to flee, a desperate video: Inside Venezuela's oil industry purge |
 | Content: CARACAS (Reuters) - Days before masked agents arrested him, family and friends pleaded with Eulogio Del Pino to flee, warning that he could be next among executives detained or pursued, one after another, in a mounting purge of Venezuela s faltering oil industry. But the former oil minister, detained by police before dawn on Nov 30, was reluctant to believe he could soon be among those targeted in what President Nicolas Maduro has characterized as a cleanup of the all-important sector.  I told him:  Go! ,  said one of three people who described the leadup to the former minister s detention.  But he told me  I haven t done anything wrong. I trust that they re not going to do anything bad to me.  That trust, the product of three years in which Del Pino held the top two jobs in Venezuela s oil ministry, now appears alarmingly misplaced. Maduro is charging Del Pino and many other former industry executives with corruption and blaming them for economic woes now crippling the Andean nation.  I m not going to shield anyone,  Maduro said in a speech on Nov 28, as he swore in a general who replaced Del Pino as oil minister.  If you re corrupt, you have to pay with jail and return what you ve stolen.  The crackdown has led to uncertainty, panic and paranoia across the sector, with as many as 65 former executives arrested over the past four months. Prosecutors, critics say, have provided scant evidence for the charges.  Corruption has long plagued the OPEC member s oil industry and much of the broader Maduro government, a leftist administration struggling with an imploding economy, soaring crime and debilitated public services. But critics of Maduro s beleaguered administration, and many within the oil industry itself, see the purge as nothing more than an effort to eliminate rivals within the sector and consolidate control ahead of presidential elections next year.  Maduro wants control of PDVSA and control of its cash flow,  said opposition legislator and economist Angel Alvarado, using the initials for state-controlled oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA. Venezuela s Information Ministry did not respond to a request for comment. PDVSA and the oil ministry did not respond to requests for comment either.  It is not clear whether any of the charges against Del Pino are substantiated. Prosecutors, without presenting any evidence, accused him of belonging to a  cartel  that operated a roughly $500 million corruption scheme in the western state of Zulia.  But the Stanford-educated engineer, who led the ministry until Nov. 26 and PDVSA for three years before that, was previously known as a government loyalist, committed to Maduro s vision for  21st century socialism.  Only after he was ousted from the ministry, the three people familiar with his arrest said, did Del Pino finally begin to believe that his time was probably up. His final days as a free man illustrate how swiftly fortunes can shift for even senior officials in Maduro s government. Just after his firing, Del Pino told Reuters in a WhatsApp message:  I need a rest.        On Nov. 29, three days after his ouster, an exhausted Del Pino went to Avila, a verdant mountain that towers over Caracas, the capital, where he liked to hike, one of the people said. Del Pino found a quiet spot under a tree and recorded a video on his cell phone. He said he believed he was about to become a  victim  of an  unjustified attack.   Before sunlight the following morning, hooded and armed military intelligence agents burst into his home and arrested him. Footage of the detention showed Del Pino wearing the burgundy-colored soccer shirt of Venezuela s national team. Later that day, the video Del Pino recorded appeared on his Twitter account.  I hope the revolution will give me the right to a legitimate defense,  he said, referring to the government in the militant terms embraced by Maduro.  Del Pino did not respond to requests for comment on WhatsApp, where he had recently changed his profile picture from one of him in a PDVSA hat to one of his children. After Del Pino s detention, stunned workers at PDVSA s Caracas headquarters, where he was generally well-liked, watched the state TV footage on screens in company elevators.  Fear has gripped employees at both institutions, according to a half-dozen current and former PDVSA insiders as well as foreign oil executives. Managers are scared to sign routine documents in case it could be used against them. Maduro promoted Del Pino, who was born in the Canary Islands and holds a Spanish passport, from PDVSA s exploration and production division to the company s top job in 2014.  At the time, foreign oil executives and analysts largely welcomed the arrival of the genial and low-profile technocrat. He replaced Rafael Ramirez, a once-powerful loyalist of the late Hugo Chavez, Maduro s predecessor.  Ramirez, who dominated Venezuela s oil industry for a decade, sought to make PDVSA  redder than red.  He urged  workers to wear red shirts in support of Chavez s socialist movement and to attend pro-government rallies.  Del Pino, by contrast, eased up on revolutionary garb and attendance at militant gatherings. He also sought closer relationships with foreign partners frustrated by currency controls and a lack of professionalism at PDVSA.  Still, many PDVSA insiders and oil executives were ultimately disappointed with Del Pino s management. Instead of improvements, he presided over a major production fall that brought Venezuela s oil output to near 30 year-lows.  Del Pino ultimately found his hands tied at a company where intervention by the government is common. Last January, Maduro replaced many of his top executives with political and military appointees. Whether Del Pino and other arrested executives are ultimately found guilty or not, many in Venezuela see opportunism behind the ongoing purge, not a concerted effort to stamp out graft. The industry, after all, has been under tight control of the ruling Socialist Party since shortly after Chavez came to power in 1998. Although the government ridiculed a report last year by the opposition-run Congress, finding that some $11 billion went missing at PDVSA over a decade, it now recognizes that many voters support the anti-corruption stances espoused by rivals.  The opposition has been pushing for a fight against corruption, and now Maduro wants to appropriate that,  said Alvarado, the opposition lawmaker. After surviving major protests this year and pushing through a controversial pro-government legislative superbody, Maduro is feeling empowered, government officials said. He seeks to fortify his position for re-election next year. He is also expected to continue finding ways to target perceived threats to his political power. Some in Venezuela see Del Pino s arrest as a way of getting at an old rival: Ramirez, the former PDVSA boss.  Ramirez, until recently Venezuela s envoy to the United Nations, is believed by many in the government to have presidential ambitions.  Although Ramirez has not been mentioned by prosecutors, senior government officials increasingly refer to his time at PDVSA as a period when  mafias  were formed and executives like Del Pino grew ascendant.  This week, after Ramirez criticized the president in recent opinion articles online, Maduro fired him and summoned him back to Caracas, according to people familiar with the clash. Late Friday, police arrested Diego Salazar, a relative of Ramirez, in what prosecutors said was another corruption investigation. Ramirez did not respond to a request for information on Friday. |

Article 19007 | Date: December 4, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. defense chief urges Pakistan to redouble efforts against militants |
 | Content: ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis met Pakistan’s civilian and military leaders on Monday and urged them to “redouble” their efforts to rein in militants accused of using the country as a base to carry out attacks in neighboring Afghanistan. Mattis, on a one-day visit to Pakistan, said the South Asian nation had made progress in the fight against militancy inside its borders but needed to make more. More than 100 days since U.S. President Donald Trump announced a South Asia strategy that calls for a firmer line toward Islamabad, U.S. officials and analysts say there has been only limited success and it is not clear how progress will be made. U.S. officials have long been frustrated by what they see as Pakistan’s reluctance to act against groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on Pakistani soil to launch attacks in Afghanistan. “The Secretary reiterated that Pakistan must redouble its efforts to confront militants and terrorists operating within the country,” the Pentagon said in a statement. Mattis, who visited Pakistan for the first time as defense secretary, said before the trip that the goal for his meetings with Pakistani officials would be to find “common ground”. In his discussion with Mattis, Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said the two allies shared objectives. “We’re committed (to) the war against terror,” he said. “Nobody wants peace in Afghanistan more than Pakistan.” Mattis also met with high-ranking officials from Pakistan’s powerful military, including army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and Lieutenant-General Naveed Mukhtar, the head of the Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency that U.S. officials say has links with Haqqani and Taliban militants. A U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mattis’ conversations had been “straightforward” and specific. The official said one of the topics of conversation was getting Pakistan to help bring the Taliban to the negotiating table   In August, Trump outlined a new strategy for the war in Afghanistan, chastising Pakistan over its alleged support for Afghan militants. But beyond that, the Trump administration has done little to articulate its strategy, experts say.  U.S. officials say they have not seen a change in Pakistan’s support for militants, despite visits by senior U.S. officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. “We have been very direct and very clear with the Pakistanis ... we have not seen those changes implemented yet,” General John Nicholson, the top U.S. general in Afghanistan, said last week. Pakistani officials have pushed back on the U.S. accusations and say they have done a great deal to help the United States in tracking down militants. U.S. official expressed hope relations could improve after a U.S.-Canadian couple kidnapped in Afghanistan were freed in Pakistan in October with their three children. While the Trump administration has used tougher words with Pakistan, it is has yet to change Islamabad’s calculus. Some experts say the United States loses clout in Pakistan when it is seen as bullying. While Mattis traveled to the region earlier this year, he did not stop in Pakistan, but visited its arch rival, India, a relationship that has grown under the Trump administration.  “There is not an effective stick anymore because Pakistan doesn’t really care about U.S aid, it has been dwindling anyway and it is getting the money it needs elsewhere ... treat it with respect and actually reward it when it does do something good,” said Madiha Afzal, with the Brookings Institution. Mattis’ brief visit to Islamabad comes a week after a hardline Pakistani Islamist group called off nationwide protests after the government met its demand that a minister accused of blasphemy resign. Separately, a Pakistani Islamist accused of masterminding a bloody 2008 assault in the Indian city of Mumbai was freed from house arrest. The White House said the release could have repercussions for U.S.-Pakistan relations. “I think for Pakistan, the timing is very bad. There is talk about progress being made against extremists and here you have a situation where religious hardliners have basically been handed everything they wanted on a silver platter,” said Michael Kugelman, with the Woodrow Wilson think tank in Washington. |

Article 19039 | Date: December 4, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: U.S. defense chief urges Pakistan to redouble efforts against militants |
 | Content: ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis met Pakistan s civilian and military leaders on Monday and urged them to  redouble  their efforts to rein in militants accused of using the country as a base to carry out attacks in neighboring Afghanistan. Mattis, on a one-day visit to Pakistan, said the South Asian nation had made progress in the fight against militancy inside its borders but needed to make more. More than 100 days since U.S. President Donald Trump announced a South Asia strategy that calls for a firmer line toward Islamabad, U.S. officials and analysts say there has been only limited success and it is not clear how progress will be made. U.S. officials have long been frustrated by what they see as Pakistan s reluctance to act against groups such as the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on Pakistani soil to launch attacks in Afghanistan.  The Secretary reiterated that Pakistan must redouble its efforts to confront militants and terrorists operating within the country,  the Pentagon said in a statement. Mattis, who visited Pakistan for the first time as defense secretary, said before the trip that the goal for his meetings with Pakistani officials would be to find  common ground . In his discussion with Mattis, Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said the two allies shared objectives.  We re committed (to) the war against terror,  he said.  Nobody wants peace in Afghanistan more than Pakistan.  Mattis also met with high-ranking officials from Pakistan s powerful military, including army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and Lieutenant-General Naveed Mukhtar, the head of the Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency that U.S. officials say has links with Haqqani and Taliban militants. A U.S. defense official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mattis  conversations had been  straightforward  and specific. The official said one of the topics of conversation was getting Pakistan to help bring the Taliban to the negotiating table   In August, Trump outlined a new strategy for the war in Afghanistan, chastising Pakistan over its alleged support for Afghan militants. But beyond that, the Trump administration has done little to articulate its strategy, experts say.  U.S. officials say they have not seen a change in Pakistan s support for militants, despite visits by senior U.S. officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.  We have been very direct and very clear with the Pakistanis ... we have not seen those changes implemented yet,  General John Nicholson, the top U.S. general in Afghanistan, said last week. Pakistani officials have pushed back on the U.S. accusations and say they have done a great deal to help the United States in tracking down militants. U.S. official expressed hope relations could improve after a U.S.-Canadian couple kidnapped in Afghanistan were freed in Pakistan in October with their three children. While the Trump administration has used tougher words with Pakistan, it is has yet to change Islamabad s calculus. Some experts say the United States loses clout in Pakistan when it is seen as bullying. While Mattis traveled to the region earlier this year, he did not stop in Pakistan, but visited its arch rival, India, a relationship that has grown under the Trump administration.   There is not an effective stick anymore because Pakistan doesn t really care about U.S aid, it has been dwindling anyway and it is getting the money it needs elsewhere ... treat it with respect and actually reward it when it does do something good,  said Madiha Afzal, with the Brookings Institution. Mattis  brief visit to Islamabad comes a week after a hardline Pakistani Islamist group called off nationwide protests after the government met its demand that a minister accused of blasphemy resign. Separately, a Pakistani Islamist accused of masterminding a bloody 2008 assault in the Indian city of Mumbai was freed from house arrest. The White House said the release could have repercussions for U.S.-Pakistan relations.  I think for Pakistan, the timing is very bad. There is talk about progress being made against extremists and here you have a situation where religious hardliners have basically been handed everything they wanted on a silver platter,  said Michael Kugelman, with the Woodrow Wilson think tank in Washington. |

Article 19272 | Date: December 6, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Jordan rejects Trump's move on Jerusalem as legally 'null' |
 | Content: AMMAN (Reuters) - Jordan on Wednesday rejected the U.S. decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, calling it legally  null  because it consolidated Israel s occupation of the eastern sector of the contested city. Government spokesman Mohammad al-Momani told state news agency Petra that the announcement by U.S. President Donald Trump violated long-standing U.N. Security Council resolutions that  stipulated the non-recognition of the Israeli occupation  of the city s eastern sector and the adjacent West Bank.  The staunch U.S. ally considered  all unilateral moves that seek to create new facts on the ground as null and void , the spokesman added. Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi said later in a tweet that the move  frustrated  peace efforts, adding that the status of Jerusalem must be  determined in direct negotiations  between the Palestinians and Israelis.  Jordan rejects the decision and all its implications and will continue to work for an independent Palestinian state with East Jerusalem as its capital,  Safadi added. Jordan lost East Jerusalem and the West Bank to Israel during the 1967 war and says the city s fate should only be decided at the end of a final settlement. Palestinians claim East Jerusalem for the capital of a future state. Israel regards Jerusalem as its eternal and indivisible capital. Jordan s King Abdullah warned of the repercussions of Trump s expected move in talks last week in Washington with top administration officials and warned of a backlash across the Middle East.  The king s Hashemite dynasty is the custodian of the Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem, making Jordan sensitive to any changes in the status of the city. A government source said Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas was due to hold talks with the monarch on Thursday in a  stepped-up diplomatic offensive to counter Trump s plan. Several protests broke out in areas of Jordan s capital, Amman, inhabited by Palestinian refugees in response to Trump s announcement. Youths chanted anti-American slogans in Amman, while in the Baqaa refugee camp on the city s outskirts, hundreds of youths roamed the streets denouncing Trump and calling on Jordan s government to scrap its 1994 peace treaty with Israel.  Down with America. America is the mother of terror,  they chanted. Jordanian deputies in a special parliamentary session on Wednesday condemned the move and urged the government to expel the U.S. ambassador and boycott U.S. goods. A dozen activists staged a sit-in near the gates of the U.S. embassy. Many people in Jordan are descendants of Palestinian refugees whose families left after the creation of Israel in 1948. Jordan s powerful mainstream Islamist movement, the country s largest political party and opposition group, said it would stage several major rallies across the country in the next few days and after Friday prayers. |

Article 19482 | Date: December 7, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: 'This is not a life': migrants stranded on Greek island |
 | Content: LESBOS, Greece (Reuters) - Syrian migrant Bashar Wakaa and his heavily pregnant wife are days away from the birth of their third child, stranded on the Greek island of Lesbos in a muddy, garbage-strewn olive grove with no running water or toilets. Nearby, three Syrian men share a flimsy tent designed for two. Like the expectant couple, they arrived by rubber dinghy from Turkey only to find the island s migrant camp in a disused military base was severely overcrowded.  This is not a life for humans,  said 23-year-old Anas Bakour, one of the men who shares the rain-sodden tent.  The animals have a better life.  The hundreds sleeping in the woods are among more than 8,500 asylum-seekers stuck on Lesbos, where facilities for migrants were only designed to accommodate about 3,000. Thousands more are on four other Greek islands close to Turkey. A deal between the European Union and Turkey struck in 2016 stemmed the uncontrolled exodus of nearly a million people across the Aegean Sea the year before. Under the agreement, anyone crossing to Greece from Turkey who does not qualify for asylum must be deported. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras discussed cooperation on migration with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, who arrived in Athens on Thursday for the first visit to the country by a Turkish head of state since 1952. Though arrivals collapsed in 2016 following the deal, they have recently ticked up. In the four months to November, 15,800 asylum-seekers arrived on Greek islands, up 27 percent from last year, according to data from the U.N. refugee agency (UNHCR). The data does not give monthly arrivals by country of origin but a UNHCR spokesman in Greece said most were Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans, as has been the case throughout the crisis. Aid groups and experts on Europe s migration crisis say the main problem is a lack of political will to improve conditions on the Greek islands, in the hope of dissuading more migrants from risking the sea crossing. 'No one will admit it but it's a discouraging factor, a discouraging message for anyone who may want to come,' said Konstantinos Filis, research director at Greece's Institute for International Relations. (For a graphic, click tmsnrt.rs/2AABfSV) Aid workers say there is now an acute shortage of medical care, the conditions are horrendous and more and more depressed asylum-seekers are cutting themselves or attempting suicide. Camp residents say gangs, some armed with knives, roam at night, drugs and alcohol circulate freely and women cower in their shelters for fear of attack.  Any girl in this camp expects at any moment that she will be attacked,  said Shahed Naji, 22, an Iraqi woman. The EU-Turkey deal does not explicitly forbid asylum-seekers from leaving the islands until claims are assessed but the process takes months and stranded asylum-seekers grow desperate and frustrated, said charity Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF).  People need to get off the island as soon as possible,  said Aria Danika, MSF s field coordinator in Lesbos. Turkish officials said the increase in crossings to the Greek islands in recent months did not reflect any slippage on their part in implementing its agreement with the EU. Some camp residents on Lesbos said they were not aware of the deal blocking their journey onwards to northern Europe. Others said they left Turkey because they could not find work and found life unbearable.  No one puts his life in danger to come by small boat if Turkey is good and he can live there,  said Amal Adwan, a Palestinian born in Syria now on Lesbos. Adwan, who made seven attempted sea crossings before reaching Lesbos, said she might have had second thoughts if she had know what the conditions were like.  If I knew before, maybe I wouldn t have come,  she said. The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi told Reuters there was  a certain general resistance to moving people from the islands, not to create a pull factor . Greece s migration ministry, which manages the Lesbos camp, has said it is trying to ease overcrowding but could not remove people in large numbers because of the EU-Turkey pact. It declined to give an immediate comment on conditions on Lesbos and other islands. Ahead of Erdogan s visit, Prime Minister Tsipras told a Turkish news agency on Wednesday that the EU-Turkey deal was  difficult but necessary . The European Commission, which has offered Greece millions in emergency aid, said on Thursday it was working on a daily basis with the Greek authorities to try to improve the conditions on the islands but more needed to be done.  I have earlier, also in Athens, expressed my frustration over the fact that although we have put so much money at the disposal of all the authorities, that still the situation on some of the islands is unacceptable,  the Commission s First Vice-President Frans Timmermans told reporters. On Lesbos, the once-welcoming community is fed up. On Saturday, residents used cars to try to block a ferry from unloading containers intended to house more refugees.   The island s mayor, Spyros Galinos, said EU policies had turned the island into  an open prison  and called for protests and strikes against the deal.   Sitting in his office overlooking the port, he compared Lesbos to a weightlifter being asked to lift heavier and heavier barbells:  Today, we re buckling. When we get crushed the situation will be completely unmanageable and explosive.    Back in the olive grove, Wakaa and his pregnant wife are despondent.  If they can t accommodate these people then why are they accepting them in the first place?  Wakaa asked.  Let them drown in the sea. At least they will die and rest.  (For photo essay from Lesbos: reut.rs/2AYs5Ci) |

Article 19641 | Date: December 8, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Malaysia's ruling party unites behind Najib as election looms |
 | Content: KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Malaysia s ruling party united behind scandal-tainted Prime Minister Najib Razak as he prepares for a general election due by August by deciding on Friday that he could stand unopposed in a party leadership contest due some time next year. Najib is hoping to win a third term despite the multi-billion dollar corruption scandal at 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB) that has dogged his premiership for the last two years. Najib has consistently denied any wrongdoing at the state fund, which he founded and served as chairman of the advisory board. At its last annual party conference before a general election, the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) gave both Najib and his deputy, Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, a free pass to retain their posts in a party leadership ballot next year.  Therefore, in the spirit of togetherness and mutuality...  state-run news agency Bernama quoted permanent chairman Badruddin Amiruldin as saying,  it is decided at this assembly that the post of president held by Datuk Seri Najib Razak and the post of deputy president Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, will not be contested in the coming elections.  When the 1MDB controversy first erupted in 2015, Najib quashed an internal revolt after some UMNO leaders asked him to step down and he blocked an inquiry into the affair. Leadership elections were postponed as he went on to purge the party of dissent while he also dropped his former liberal image, cracking down on opponents and civil society, as he moved UMNO closer to conservative Islamist values, worrying Malaysia s sizable Chinese and Indian minorities. Addressing the conference earlier this week, Najib called for loyalty from UMNO s 3.4 million members.  Have absolute loyalty and obey all the instructions of the top leadership,  he said in a keynote address to the party faithful. Four years ago, UMNO crept back into power despite registering its worst ever election performance, as an opposition front led the charismatic Anwar Ibrahim called foul after losing despite winning the popular vote. This time, however, the challenge is coming from the veteran  Mahathir Mohamad - who gave up the premiership in 2003 after 22 years in power and had been Najib s political mentor. Mahathir, has come out of retirement to team up with Anwar - who is languishing in jail having been convicted in a case that both he and independent observers say was politically motivated. A rebounding economy and strengthening ringgit currency have helped Najib improve his image among Malaysians, who have been frustrated with the corruption and rising living costs. But the 1MDB scandal refuses to go away, with U.S. Attorney General this week referring to the case as the worst example of kleptocracy that the Department of Justice had investigated. |

Article 19747 | Date: December 10, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Catalan separatists to lose majority in tight election: poll |
 | Content: BARCELONA (Reuters) - Catalonia s independence movement could suffer a serious setback in elections this month, according to a poll published on Sunday, which suggests separatist parties will narrowly fail to secure a majority in the regional parliament. The three parties which supported Catalonia s frustrated push to split from Spain in October are seen as returning a total of 66 or 67 seats in the Dec. 21 election, just shy of the 68 seats they would need to control the regional parliament, according to the poll in Spanish newspaper La Vanguardia. Unionist parties combined are also seen as falling short of an absolute majority, the poll finds, opening the door to a possible hung parliament with CatComu-Podem, the Catalan arm of the anti-austerity Podemos party, as a potential kingmaker. Market friendly unionist party Ciudadanos and two pro-independence parties, ERC and Junts per Catalunya, the party of former Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont, are in a dead heat to be the largest parliamentary force, according to the poll based on interviews between Dec. 4 and Dec. 7. Turnout for the election, which was forced by the central government in an effort to break the political crisis that seized the region in recent months, is predicted to reach a record 82 percent. |

Article 19800 | Date: December 11, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: In Dordogne idyll, Brits unimpressed with Brexit talks |
 | Content: EYMET, France (Reuters) - Britain s prime minister may be hailing  a new sense of optimism  in Brexit talks. But David and Iona Stent, who sold their English home three years ago to start anew in the sun-kissed vineyards of France s Dordogne, are having none of it. The couple are frustrated as London inches ahead in its divorce with the European Union, and say Friday s interim deal offers them scant reassurance for the future of their  Franglais Foods  market stall business. Under the agreement, the 1.2 million Britons with permanent residence in EU states will be allowed to stay and receive the same treatment over social security, healthcare and employment as the 3 million Europeans living in Britain.   But the deal was only sealed with a handshake.  It is just words from politicians. It gives me no confidence at all,  said Iona, who sells fudge, Scottish cakes and quiches in the bastide village of Eymet and surrounding areas. The couple are determined to stay in France. If they can, they will apply for French citizenship, but they are not sure if they will be eligible.  Eymet s warm climate, good wine and cheap, tumbledown farmhouses have been a magnet for British expatriates since the 1970s. The village boasts an English pub, tea room and a grocery store offering Marmite, Heinz Baked Beans and custard powder. There is even a cricket club. While Friday s deal outlined the terms of Britain s separation from the EU, pitfalls lie ahead. Tough discussions over Britain s trade relationship with the bloc could widen differences within Prime Minister Theresa May s cabinet over how Britain should look after it leaves.            We don t know what situation we ll find ourselves in,  said Iona.  We joke about turning up at the  Jungle  (migrant camp) in Calais. We ve got this idea they re going to reinstate it for all the Brits.  On the far side of the medieval village s central Place Gambetta, clipped English accents fill  Le Treize  cafe as Stephen and Liz Chorlton ponder their pension income. Britain s pound has fallen 13 percent against the euro since the vote to leave the EU, eroding UK-based earnings, pensions and investment incomes.  We ve got nothing left in the UK other than a few savings,  said Stephen, 60, who quit his job in Manchester in 2010 after the finiancial crisis hit the shop-fitting industry and moved to southwestern France. Sterling s slump means he and his wife now juggle drawing down their pound-denominated private pensions and tapping the income they earn from a French investment fund.  I had a conversation with my financial adviser last week. He reckons I could live until I am in my 90s and says if I keep drawing out at the level I m allowed, my spending will be unsustainable,  said Liz. There are about 300 Britons among Eymet s 2,600-strong population, a number which swells in the summer.  Many lament the divisive nature of the Brexit debate in Britain. Others fume at former prime minister David Cameron s decision to hold the vote in the first place and what they see  and the incoherence of his successor s negotiating strategy.   None of us got the vote. It s like being shat on from a great height and we have no say about it,  said pensioner Andrew Cardle as carafes of wine lubricated a game of indoor-skittles between The Sinners and Eymet Cricket Club. For all the uncertainty, few Britons in Eymet believe they will be thrown out.  The influx of foreigners here pulled Eymet back from the dead,  said Keith Mcbride, a 54-year-old former City broker with a broad Essex accent and two golden labradors.  Come Brexit, no one knows what the rules will be,  he said.  But they re not going to backtrack and say people who are in the system are now out of the system, because we pay contributions.  Nonetheless, some are contemplating an insurance policy: French nationality.  If I have to I ll take (French) citizenship. Piece of cake, if I can pass that bloody language exam,  said David Horlock, who runs a small plastering business. In a sign some in Britain are still considering a move to France before Brexit hits, Terrie Simpson, whose Agence Eleonor estate agency has seen revenues rise over the past two years, said there was still demand from Britons.  We ve had people come in and say we re so fed up with Brexit that we want to buy a house in France,  said Simpson, whose office front door carries a sticker in the colors of the EU flag reading:  Bollox to Brexit .  It might sound arrogant to say they need the English here, but they do. They spend their money in the restaurants, their money is in the banks and young families pay taxes and send their children to the school,  said Simpson. Many locals do fret that the shutters will come down on Eymet s cafes and local businesses if Brexit leads to an exodus of Britons.   If the are no English here, we re screwed!  said cheesemonger Philippe Barbe.  They re a big part of our local economy. |

Article 19858 | Date: December 12, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Tillerson seeks to ease skepticism about U.S. State Department reorganization |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Rex Tillerson, dogged by media speculation about how long he will last as U.S. secretary of state, tried on Tuesday to ease skepticism among staff about his leadership and planned State Department reorganization. Tillerson has alienated some staff by relying on a narrow group of aides while nudging out some of the department’s most senior foreign service officials, and for making erroneous statements about the top echelon of U.S. diplomats during a recent appearance. During a town hall meeting at the State Department, the chief U.S. diplomat laid out steps such as merging agency email lists, allowing more telecommuting for employees and partially easing a hiring freeze as part of his effort to win over workers unhappy about previously announced plans to reduce staff and to carry out the White House’s proposed 30 percent budget cuts. Tillerson did not break new ground in his speech on policy challenges such as the North Korean and Iranian nuclear programs, Syria’s civil war and Russia’s occupation of Crimea. Among the organizational steps he laid out were moving to cloud-based systems for email and collaboration; integrating the State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development email address lists; and ending a hiring freeze on “eligible family members” of employees. Many State Department officials have been frustrated by the hiring freeze on such family members because this means their spouses are often unable to work at U.S. embassies. The State Department said its wider hiring freeze would remain for now. Tillerson also announced plans to allow workers abroad who are evacuated for medical reasons to telecommute; to streamline the process of obtaining security clearances, including allowing interns to work with “interim” clearances; and to simplify the department’s computer system interfaces. Tillerson aides have said they need to make a stronger case about the reorganization. While the initiatives that he announced drew some applause, five of six State Department officials interviewed about his remarks said they did not think the town hall would do much to ease skepticism about Tillerson or his reorganization plans. “It’s too little too late,” said one official who spoke on condition of anonymity. President Donald Trump has undercut Tillerson on issues such as North Korea, where the president said the secretary of state was wasting his time pursuing diplomacy. Tillerson’s inaccurate statements about the title and ages of some the State Department’s recently retired top officials have rankled some of his staff and suggested that his grasp of the agency’s inner workings is limited. “It’s one of many things that show that the administration as a whole doesn’t fundamentally understand what diplomacy can do and how it works,” Richard Boucher, a former assistant secretary for South and Central Asia, said on Monday. |

Article 19890 | Date: December 12, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: 'We are one': Palestinian Christians and Muslims unite against Trump's Jerusalem call |
 | Content: JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Less than an hour after U.S. President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel s capital, Palestinians protested by turning off the lights on the Christmas tree outside Bethlehem s Church of the Nativity, the traditional birthplace of Jesus. It was a timely reminder that while headlines focused on Islamist calls for uprisings and Trump s references to Jewish historical ties, the president s words also stirred deep feelings among the Palestinians  small Christian community. Coming out of the Sunday service in his Assyrian Catholic church in Jerusalem, Fredrick Hazo accused Trump of  dragging all the world into trouble , and called on the U.S. leader to reverse his decision.  We are united - Christians, Muslims, we are one,  said the 59-year-old Palestinian musician, standing in an alley in the heart of the Old City, surrounded by shops selling religious trinkets. He was frustrated by the politics, but confident the delicate balance the three faiths kept in the holy city would prevail.  In this sacred place, God is protecting us all. We are guarded by his angels in Jerusalem,  Hazo added. Christians make up around just one percent of the Palestinian population in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem - though they punch above their weight in local and national politics.    Back in July, Hazo protested alongside Muslims against Israel s installation of security scanners at the nearby al-Aqsa mosque - Islam s third holiest site - after two Arab-Israeli gunmen shot dead two Israeli police officers at the site.  It removed the metal detectors after days of bloody clashes, scenes that have not been repeated in the city since Trump s declaration. The appeals to religious unity inside Jerusalem s walls stand in contrast to the more divided voices outside. In the hours running up to Trump s statement, Pope Francis called for the status quo in the city to be respected. The Episcopal Church of the United States said Trump s announcement  could have profound ramifications on the peace process and the future of a two-state solution . But Trump s decision found strong backing from another corner of the Christian community - many among his own country s politically powerful evangelicals who see God s hand in the modern-day return of Jews to a biblical homeland. Trump convened a circle of evangelical advisers during his presidential bid, and he was the overwhelming favorite of white evangelical voters in last year s U.S. election.   We are all bible-believers and we believe that this is the bible-land and that Jerusalem is the ancient capital of Israel back to the days of King David,  said Dallas-based Mike Evans, part of an evangelical group that met Trump on Monday.  So for our president to stand up and declare it makes us extremely proud and honored.  For Palestinian supermarket cashier Mohammed al-Hawa, however, Trump s words and the logic behind them ignored the more complex reality on the ground. People of all faith in Jerusalem were united in prayer, the 33-year-old said, even if they were divided over politics.  Christians, Jews and Muslims live in this city together. There is no problem between them. Only the politics. The governments want to make wars,  he said.  This is my city - my blood, my life,  added a 70-year-old Palestinian, walking through the pilgrim-packed courtyard of Jerusalem s Church of the Holy Sepulchre, revered by Christians as the site of Jesus s tomb. The church is packed into a small parcel of land that also holds the al-Aqsa compound and Judaism s Western Wall  I can go to the church, to anywhere in Jerusalem, not Trump nor Netanyahu can stop me,  added the man who identified himself only as a  Jerusalemite . |

Article 20125 | Date: December 14, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Exclusive: U.S. suspends aid to Somalia's battered military over graft |
 | Content: NAIROBI (Reuters) - The United States is suspending food and fuel aid for most of Somalia s armed forces over corruption concerns, a blow to the military as African peacekeepers start to withdraw this month. African Union (AU) troops landed in Mogadishu a decade ago to fight al Shabaab Islamist militants and Somali forces are supposed to eventually take over their duties. But the United States, which also funds the 22,000-strong peacekeeping force, has grown frustrated that successive governments have failed to build a viable national army. Diplomats worry that without strong Somali forces, al Shabaab could be reinvigorated, destabilize the region and offer a safe haven to other al Qaeda-linked militants or Islamic State fighters. The U.S. suspension of aid came after the Somali military repeatedly failed to account for food and fuel, according to private correspondence between the U.S. and Somali governments seen by Reuters.  During recent discussions between the United States and the Federal Government of Somalia, both sides agreed that the Somali National Army had failed to meet the standards for accountability for U.S. assistance,  a State Department official told Reuters last week, on condition of anonymity.   We are adjusting U.S. assistance to SNA units, with the exception of units receiving some form of mentorship, to ensure that U.S. assistance is being used effectively and for its intended purpose,  the official said. The U.S. suspension comes at a sensitive time. The AU force - with troops from Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda - is scheduled to leave by 2020. The first 1,000 soldiers will go by the end of 2017. The State Department official said Washington would continue to support small, Somali special forces units mentored by U.S. personnel and would work with the Somali government to agree criteria that could restore support to other units.  It is true that some concerns have been raised on how support was utilized and distributed. The federal government is working to address these,  Somali Minister of Defence Mohamed Mursal told Reuters. Documents sent from the U.S. Mission to Somalia to the Somali government show U.S. officials are increasingly frustrated that the military is unable to account for its aid. The documents paint a stark picture of a military hollowed out by corruption, unable to feed, pay or arm its soldiers - despite hundreds of millions of dollars of support. Between May and June, a team of U.S. and Somali officials visited nine army bases to assess whether the men were receiving food the United States provides for 5,000 soldiers.  We did not find the expected large quantities of food at any location ... there was no evidence of consumption (except at two bases),  the U.S. team wrote to the Somali government.   At one base, less than a fifth of the soldiers listed by Somali commanders were present. The best-staffed base had 160 soldiers out of 550. Only 60 had weapons.  Many appeared to be wearing brand new uniforms. This implied they were assembled merely to improve appearances,  the letter, seen by Reuters, said. An ongoing assessment of the Somali military this year by the Somali government, African Union and United Nations drew similar conclusions.  The joint report seen by Reuters said many soldiers lacked guns, uniforms, food, vehicles or tents. Troops relied on support from AU forces or local militias to survive.  The SNA is a fragile force with extremely weak command and control,  the report said.  They are incapable of conducting effective operations or sustaining themselves.  Most units don t have radios, leaving soldiers to rely on runners to get help when mobile networks go down, the report said. Troops lacked paper to write reports, toilets, boots and medical equipment such as tourniquets. Many slept under trees.  SNA units were at 62 percent of their authorized strength on average. Only 70 percent of them had weapons, the report said. Although the report was deeply critical, diplomats praised the government for trying to quantify the scope of the problem.   The government deserves massive praise for doing it and being willing to talk about it,  Michael Keating, the U.N. s top official in Somalia, told Reuters. The United States also suspended a program paying soldiers $100 monthly stipends in June after the federal government refused to share responsibility for receiving the payments with regional forces fighting al Shabaab. Washington has spent $66 million on stipends over the past seven years but has halted the program several times, concerned the money was not going to frontline soldiers. One Somali document seen by Reuters showed members of a 259-strong ceremonial brass band were receiving stipends this year meant for soldiers fighting militants. The State Department s watchdog said in a report published in October there were insufficient checks on the program and U.S. stipends could fund forces that commit abuses - or even support insurgents.  Officially, Somalia s military is 26,000 strong, but the payroll is stuffed with ghost soldiers, pensioners and the dead, whose families may be receiving their payments, diplomats say.  Intermittent payments from the government have forced many active soldiers to sell their weapons, ammunition or seek other work - practices the U.S. stipends were designed to curb. Washington has whittled down the number of troops it pays to 8,000 from over 10,000 but there is still no reliable payroll, said a Mogadishu-based security expert.  Defence Minister Mursal said the United Nations is creating a biometric database and plans to help the Somali government make cash payments directly to soldiers via mobile phones.  The new government will also set up a separate system for widows, orphans, and the wounded so the payroll would adequately represent military strength, he said. The weakness of Somali forces has deadly consequences. The insurgency is striking with ever larger and more deadly attacks in the capital Mogadishu and major towns. A truck bomb killed more than 500 people in October and a suicide bomber killed at least 18 at a police academy on Thursday. Yusuf, a 35-year-old Somali soldier stationed near the Indian Ocean port of Kismayu, knows what it s like to depend on local militias and AU forces to stay alive. On Sept. 26, insurgents attacked his base at Bula Gadud, killing 15 colleagues and wounding scores more before the local Jubaland militia and AU peacekeepers saved them.   We lost several key members in that battle especially my close friend,  he told Reuters.  We tried to retreat ... after using all the ammunition we had.   A senior Somali security source said when the attack happened, the battalion of more than 1,000 soldiers had only been issued 300 guns.  Defence Minister Mursal said the Somali troops at Bulagadud have since been sent more weapons. Somalia s national security plan calls for a military of 18,000 soldiers, funded by the central government and operating country-wide.  Getting there will be hard. Security experts say the military is dominated by a powerful clan, the Hawiye, which would be reluctant to lose control of the lucrative security assistance revenue stream.  Many regional governments within Somalia already see the Hawiye-dominated federal forces as rivals rather than allies. The government s ability to push reforms depends on balancing demands from federal member states, lawmakers, clan leaders and international partners, the U.N. s Keating said.  It s going to take a long time and its going to run into massive clan resistance,  he said.  Some clans are very dominant in the security forces.  Somalia s partners also need to get serious and coordinate better, said Matt Bryden of the think-tank Sahan Research. According to Sahan, donors - including the EU, AU, Turkey and Uganda - have trained more than 80,000 Somali soldiers since 2004. Bryden said records are so poor it was not clear if many had taken multiple courses, or just quit afterwards.   It s like sand through your fingers   where are they all? |

Article 20210 | Date: December 15, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump officials brief Hill staff on Saudi reactors, enrichment a worry |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administration briefed congressional staff this week on how the White House was considering non-proliferation standards in a potential pact to sell nuclear reactor technology to Saudi Arabia, but did not indicate whether allowing uranium enrichment would be part of any deal, congressional aides said. Non-proliferation advocates worry that allowing Saudi Arabia to enrich fuel in a nuclear power deal could also enable it to one day covertly produce fissile material and set off an arms race with arch-rival Iran that could spread more broadly throughout the Middle East.  Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff members were briefed by State Department and Department of Energy officials in a meeting on Wednesday, the aides said. They learned the administration “is working to develop a position on non-proliferation standards” should they begin talks with Saudi Arabia on a civilian nuclear cooperation pact known as a 123 agreement, a committee aide said.  The administration is still mulling whether any agreement would allow uranium enrichment, the aide said.  The race to build Saudi Arabia’s first nuclear power reactors is heating up among U.S., South Korean, Chinese and Russian companies.  U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry visited Saudi Arabia last week, telling Reuters then that new talks between the two allies on a 123 agreement would start soon. An agreement would allow U.S. companies to participate in Saudi Arabia’s civilian nuclear program. Riyadh has said it wants to be self-sufficient in producing nuclear fuel and that it is not interested in diverting nuclear technology to military use. In previous talks, Saudi Arabia has refused to sign an agreement with Washington that would deprive it of enriching uranium. Uranium fuel for reactors is enriched to only about 5 percent, lower than the 90 percent level for fissile material in nuclear bombs. Some senators with proliferation concerns worry the administration is moving too quickly on talks about nuclear plants and enrichment with Saudi without consulting Congress. As required by a 2008 law, the president is required to keep the committees in the House and Senate that deal with foreign relations “fully and currently informed” on any initiative and talks relating to new or amended 123 agreements. “We’re frustrated by the lack of briefings and having to yet again learn about potential foreign policy developments from the press,” a congressional aide said. A day before the senate briefing, a report by Bloomberg citing sources said that the administration may allow uranium enrichment as part of an agreement. The congressional aide said there are concerns that plans for an agreement are only being conducted by a small number of people controlled by the White House. “It also appears that this is policy being driven out of the White House, which makes congressional oversight that much harder,” said the aide. If lawmakers oppose a civilian nuclear deal signed by the president they can try to fight it with legislation or other measures. The Trump administration and the previous Obama administration have pushed for selling nuclear power technology abroad, partly to keep the country competitive with Russia and China in nuclear innovation. A State Department official said the United States and Saudi Arabia have been in talks since 2012 regarding a 123 agreement but declined to comment on the discussions. Energy Department officials did not immediately comment on the briefing. Toshiba-owned Westinghouse is in talks with other U.S.- based companies to form a consortium for a bid in a multibillion-dollar tender for two nuclear reactors in Saudi Arabia. Winning a bid would be a big step for Westinghouse. It went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy this year and abandoned plans to build two advanced AP1000 reactors in the United States. |

Article 20424 | Date: December 18, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump strategy document says Russia meddles in domestic affairs worldwide |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration said on Monday that Russia interferes in the domestic political affairs of countries globally, but stopped short of accusing Moscow of meddling in the 2016 U.S. election. The criticism of Russia, laid out in a new national security strategy based on Trump’s “America First” vision, reflects a view long held by U.S. diplomats that Russia actively undermines American interests at home and abroad, despite Trump’s own bid for warmer ties with President Vladimir Putin. “Through modernized forms of subversive tactics, Russia interferes in the domestic political affairs of countries around the world,” said the document. It avoided directly citing what U.S. intelligence agencies say was Russian meddling in last year’s U.S. presidential election. “Russia uses information operations as part of its offensive cyber efforts to influence public opinion across the globe. Its influence campaigns blend covert intelligence operations and false online personas with state-funded media, third-party intermediaries, and paid social media users or ‘trolls,’” the document said. Trump has frequently spoken of wanting to improve relations with Putin, even though Russia has frustrated U.S. policy in Syria and Ukraine and done little to help Washington in its standoff with North Korea. In a speech laying out his strategy, Trump noted that he received a call from Putin on Sunday to thank him for providing U.S. intelligence that helped thwart a bomb attack in the Russian city of St. Petersburg. Trump said the collaboration was “the way it’s supposed to work.” “But while we seek such opportunities of cooperation, we will stand up for ourselves and we will stand up for our country like we have never stood up before,” he said at the Ronald Reagan Building in downtown Washington.  The audience of about 650 people frequently applauded the speech. It included the military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, several Cabinet secretaries, lawmakers, military personnel and officials from the intelligence community and other agencies.  A U.S. Justice Department investigation is looking into whether Trump campaign aides colluded with Russia, something that Moscow and Trump both deny.  U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded Russians tried to tip the election to Trump through hacking and releasing emails to embarrass Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and spreading social media propaganda. Facebook, Google and Twitter Inc are facing a backlash after saying Russians used their services to anonymously spread divisive messages among Americans in the run-up to the election. Other Western nations, including France, have accused Russia of trying to interfere in their elections. Congress mandates that every U.S. administration set out its national security strategy. The new Trump strategy is influenced strongly by the thinking of top national security officials rather than that of the president himself, said one official involved in preparing the document.  The Republican president’s strategy reflects his “America First” priorities of protecting the U.S. homeland and borders, rebuilding the military, projecting strength abroad and pursuing trade policies more favorable to the United States. Talking points sent to U.S. embassies worldwide on what diplomats should say about the new strategy makes clear that the official U.S. position is tough on Russia. An unclassified State Department cable, seen by Reuters, said: “Russia tries to weaken the credibility of America’s commitment to Europe. With its invasions of Georgia and Ukraine, Russia has demonstrated a willingness to use force to challenge the sovereignty of states in the region.”Harry Kazianis, an analyst at the conservative Center for the National Interest think tank, said, “While things with Moscow might be warm and fuzzy for the moment, President Putin will not take too kindly to being labeled as what essentially amounts to as an enemy of America.” It drops Democratic former President Barack Obama’s 2016 description of climate change as a U.S. national security threat, aides said. Trump has vowed to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord unless changes are made to it.    The Trump administration lumps together China and Russia as competitors seeking to challenge U.S. power and erode its security and prosperity.                 The singling out of China and Russia as “revisionist powers” also comes despite Trump’s own attempts to build strong relations Chinese President Xi Jinping. A senior administration official said Russia and China were attempting to revise the global status quo - Russia in Europe with its military incursions into Ukraine and Georgia, and China in Asia by its aggression in the South China Sea. Russia denies the allegations that it meddled with the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Trump has been working with Xi to exert pressure on North Korea over its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. The administration warned that intellectual property theft by China is a national security problem.  “We need to protect data in different ways. We need to ensure that the legislation we have, like CFIUS, is up to date and reflects the kinds of strategic investments that are taking place by other countries,” an administration official said.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), which reviews the purchase of U.S. assets by foreign companies, has recently taken a strong stand against technology transfers to Chinese companies. |

Article 20468 | Date: December 18, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Somali president vows extra efforts after U.S. suspends aid to military |
 | Content: MOGADISHU (Reuters) - The government of Somali will do all it can to pay salaries and buy equipment for its soldiers as it begins to lose international support, the country s president said on Monday. The statement came several days after Reuters reported that the United States was suspending food and fuel aid for most of Somalia s armed forces over corruption concerns. That announcement was a blow to the military, who will begin losing the support of African peacekeepers when they start to withdraw this month. Islamist insurgents are striking with ever-larger and more deadly attacks in the capital and major towns.  I hereby certify that if a thing is halted, as a government we shall put effort five hundred percent so that the suspension does not affect anyone, President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed said in an address to military officials at the defense ministry that was broadcast on local radio.  Whether it is salary or equipment, the government will bring what it can, he said.  I am telling you that we should depend on ourselves. We thank the foreigners who were supporting us. If they mentioned criticism, we are required to rectify.  The president did not mention a specific donor s support, but added:  If you have someone who is ready to lend you a hand, you have to avoid things that can bring suspicion.  Reuters reported that the U.S. has grown frustrated that successive governments have failed to build a capable national army. Documents seen by Reuters paint a stark picture of a military hollowed out by corruption, unable to feed, pay or arm its soldiers, despite hundreds of millions of dollars of support. |

Article 20632 | Date: December 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Kremlin dismisses Trump's 'imperialist' security strategy |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin dismissed U.S. President Donald Trump s new national security strategy as imperialist on Tuesday, but welcomed Washington s willingness to cooperate in some areas. A day earlier, Trump s administration had unveiled a security paper - based on the president s  America First  push - that accused Russia of interfering in other countries  internal affairs.   A quick read of the parts of the strategy that mention our country one way or another... (shows) an imperialist character,  Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.  The paper, he added also showed  an unwillingness to give up the idea of a unipolar world, moreover, an insistent unwillingness, disregard for a multipolar world.  Trump s strategy paper did not include specific accusations from U.S. security agencies that Moscow meddled in the 2016 U.S. election. But it reflected a broader view long held by U.S. diplomats that Russia actively undermines American interests at home and abroad.  We can not agree with an attitude that sees our country as a threat to the United States,  Peskov said.  At the same time, there are some modestly positive aspects, in particular, the readiness to cooperate in areas that correspond to American interests.   Trump has frequently spoken of wanting to improve relations with President Vladimir Putin, even though Russia has frustrated U.S. policy in Syria and Ukraine and done little to help Washington in its standoff with North Korea. In a speech laying out his strategy on Monday, Trump said he had received a call from Putin a day earlier to thank him for providing U.S. intelligence that helped thwart a bomb attack in the Russian city of St. Petersburg. A U.S. Justice Department investigation is looking into whether Trump campaign aides colluded with Russia, something that Moscow and Trump both deny. |

Article 20703 | Date: December 20, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Philippine police chief defends deadly drug war of the 'Davao Boys' |
 | Content: MANILA (Reuters) - The police chief of the Philippines on Wednesday stood by the head of a secretive unit behind dozens of killings in the country s war on drugs, saying officers fired only in self-defence and the death toll reflected the danger and the scale of the narcotics problem. National police chief Ronald dela Rosa was responding to a Reuters Special Report that spent four months examining killings by one group of policemen from or near Davao City, the hometown of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. Dela Rosa said police district 6 in Quezon City had Metro Manila s most serious drug problem and he personally sent squad commander Lito Patay there because he was a  very professional  and  very dedicated  officer capable of dealing with it. Patay handpicked and headed a unit of 10 men who called themselves the  Davao Boys , which racked up the highest number of kills in Quezon City, a violent frontline in Duterte s ferocious anti-narcotics campaign.  Police station 6 officers killed 108 people in anti-drug operations from July 2016 through June 2017, the campaign s first year, accounting for 39 percent of Quezon City s body count, according to official crime reports analyzed by Reuters. A majority of the killings were carried out by the squad run by Patay, who was reassigned to Quezon City just a few weeks after Duterte unleashed his crackdown.  He (Patay) was chosen because I have big trust in him, he has the balls to face the problems. He will fight,  dela Rosa told reporters.  He is not an officer who is after money, who will be assigned in an area only to collect money, he is not that kind of officer. He has focus. I assigned him there because I know he can deliver.  Asked about the high rate of killings in areas under Patay, he said deaths were inevitable where the drugs trade was rampant.  So what s the problem? The worst drug problem is there in station 6, so if you hit the problem head on, you face the problem head on then, there would always result in casualties,  he said.     Nearly 4,000 mostly urban poor Filipinos have been killed in anti-drug operations since July 2016. Police reject activists  allegations they have executed drug users and peddlers and say they kill only when their lives are in danger. Dela Rosa said Patay has since been reassigned to another province to make him eligible for promotion, reflecting his success in convincing drug suspects in Quezon City to surrender to the authorities.  He said Patay had been  given a free hand  at station 6 and had command responsibility over his operations.   It is his own call whatever he does there, he has to solve the drug problem,  dela Rosa said. The story of the Davao Boys also highlights a larger dynamic: Many of the drug war s key police officers - dela Rosa included - hail from or served in Duterte s hometown, where the campaign s brutal methods originated during his time as mayor. Duterte has repeatedly denied he ordered the killings of criminals and drug dealers during his 22 years as Davao mayor, or his 17 months as president. Dela Rosa appeared frustrated when asked by a reporter if he personally had ordered the deaths of drug suspects in Quezon City. He said Patay s men had no alternative but to kill armed criminals who refused to go quietly.  He was placed there to address the drug problem, and not to kill those who deserved to be killed,  he said of Patay.  If they resist, why would you risk your life? You have to fight back. |

Article 20788 | Date: December 21, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Canada pays tribute to billionaire couple after mysterious deaths |
 | Content: (In Dec. 21 item, corrects spelling of Jonathon Sherman s first name) By Anna Mehler Paperny and Matt Scuffham TORONTO (Reuters) - Tearful family members paid tribute to Canadian pharmaceutical billionaires and philanthropists Barry and Honey Sherman before thousands of people on Thursday, less than a week after news of the couple s mysterious deaths shocked the nation. The Shermans were found hanging by belts around their necks from a railing beside a pool in the basement of their Toronto mansion, a friend of the family told Reuters.  Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau attended the memorial service in Toronto, as did hundreds of Apotex Inc employees wearing blue, the official color of Barry Sherman s company.  The Sherman s son Jonathon began an emotional eulogy by saying the family was frustrated with the way Toronto police have handled the case, referencing Canadian media reports that said investigators were working on the theory that Barry Sherman, 75, had killed his 70-year-old wife and then himself.  We ve had to navigate through a terrifying maze of non-information and unfounded speculation,  Jonathon Sherman said.  I kept expecting my parents to walk through the front door and say,  Everything will be fine. We ve taken control of the situation.  Police have confirmed that the Shermans died of ligature strangulation and that there were no signs of forced entry to the couple s home.  Homicide detectives are leading the investigation, but the deaths have not been declared a homicide. Police have not detained any suspects and have not said if they are looking for any. Family, friends, colleagues and political leaders remembered Barry Sherman as a brilliant man. They described the graduate of the prestigious Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an accomplished executive who worked around the clock to build Apotex into one of the world s biggest generic drugmakers.  Several speakers mentioned his penchant for chiding people over grammatical mistakes.   He pretty well thought he was smarter than anyone else,  said Jack Kaye, an Apotex executive who worked alongside Sherman for decades.  And he wasn t wrong about that.  Honey Sherman was described as vivacious and dedicated, a philanthropist who worked hard to keep her extended family close.   She was my best friend and my other half,  said her sister Mary Schechtman.  We completed each other s sentences and never went anywhere without each other. |

