Article(s) with "Donald Trump" in the title:
---------------------------------------------
Article 62 | Date: January 15, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump says he would tax Chinese goods to stop currency devaluation |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump called for higher tariffs on Chinese goods if China does not stop allowing its yuan currency to devalue. Trump reiterated a call he has made for a 45 percent tariff to offset devaluation. The billionaire businessman also criticized Japan, saying it was engaging in similar practices and pointed to competition between tractors made by U.S. company Caterpillar Inc (CAT.N) and those made by Japan’s Komatsu Ltd (6301.T). “They’re devaluing their currency, and they’re killing our companies,” Trump said. “We are letting them get away with it, and we can’t let them get away with it.” The yuan posted modest gains on Friday, but it was still around 1.4 percent weaker against the dollar than it started the year and has lost nearly 5 percent since August. The question of how best to respond to China’s currency devaluation become a topic of discussion between the Republican presidential hopefuls in Thursday night’s debate.  Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush criticized Trump for calling for higher tariffs, saying that would only prompt retaliation against U.S. goods. “This would be devastating for our economy,” Bush said in response. “We need someone with a steady hand being president of the United States.”  U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said he opposes tariffs on Chinese goods because it would only increase prices for American consumers.  “China doesn’t pay the tariff, the buyer pays the tariff. If you send a tie or a shirt made in China into the United States, and an American goes to buy it at the store and there’s a tariff on it, it gets passed on in the price to the consumer,” Rubio said. Trump responded that Rubio’s approach - to simply build the American economy in response - would take too long.  “You absolutely have to get involved with China. They are taking so much of what we have in terms of jobs, in terms of money,” Trump said. “We just can’t do it any longer.” U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas agreed that a tariff would not solve the trade problem with China.  “If we just impose a tariff, they’ll put reciprocal tariffs, which will hurt Iowa farmers and South Carolina producers and 20 percent of the American jobs that depend on exports,” Cruz said, referring to two of the early voting states in the presidential nominating contest. Asked about Trump’s remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a regular press briefing that China adjusted its currency based on market needs and that it would maintain the yuan exchange rate at a “reasonable equilibrium level”.  “We are opposed to competitive devaluation of the currency, as well as currency wars,” Hong said. |

Article 587 | Date: February 24, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Online bettors see Donald Trump as odds-on Republican nominee |
 | Content: NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Donald Trump’s chances of winning the Republican nomination for the White House shot to a record high at online betting sites around the world on Wednesday after his latest victory in voting in Nevada. Betting venues in Britain, Ireland and New Zealand show the online wagering community coalescing around Trump, once considered a rank outsider attracting long-shot odds of 200/1. Following his double-digit margin win in Nevada’s Republican caucuses on Tuesday, his third victory in the first four early nominating contests, odds have tightened all the way to 1/2 in some cases. “Mr Trump has triumphed yet again, despite political analysts almost unanimously writing him off as a serious presidential contender,” said Graham Sharpe from William Hill, adding one customer stood to collect at least $100,000 if Trump was elected to the White House on Nov. 8.  William Hill and Betway make Trump 1/2 favorite to get the Republican nod, while Ladbrokes cut his odds to 4/9, the same as those shown on Ireland’s PaddyPower. His nearest rival, U.S. Senator Marco Rubio from Florida, featured odds of 6/1 on Ladbrokes. U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has been battling with Rubio for the No. 2 spot in the early voting states, has sunk to a deep longshot. Paddy Power gives Cruz odds of 33/1, its site shows. Bettors also markedly cut the odds on Trump becoming president, although he still trails Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, who won Nevada’s Democratic caucuses on Saturday. Jessica Bridge from Ladbrokes said Trump was on a roll heading into Super Tuesday on March 1, when several U.S. states hold nominating contests. On PredictIt, a site operated by Victoria University in Wellington, New Zealand, Trump’s chances of winning the Republican nod were the highest since it started tracking the race in October 2015.  A Trump bet there, on a scale of $0.00 to $1, stood at 72 cents, up 4 cents, while Rubio tumbled 7 cents to 24 cents and Cruz sank a penny to 4 cents, matching a record low.  (Reporting by Michael Holden in London and Dan Burns in New York; Editing by Guy Faulconbridge and Howard Goller) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 636 | Date: February 26, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: In Florida, Donald Trump has a model for success |
 | Content: SARASOTA, Fla. (Reuters) - The pundits said he never had a chance: He was a high-powered U.S. businessman who had never run for office. He largely financed his own campaign. He took a hard line on illegal immigration and Obamacare. His attacks on Islam were controversial. Six years ago that businessman, Rick Scott, won Florida’s Republican primary for governor. He then went on to take the general election. Now in his second term, Scott is in many ways a prototype for Donald Trump’s U.S. presidential campaign. Scott’s success in Florida is something that should give serious pause to Marco Rubio, a U.S. senator from the state who hopes to use it as a springboard to unseat Trump as the leading contender for the Republican nomination to the Nov. 8 election.  Florida’s March 15 primary, to select a wealth of delegates to the Republicans’ July nominating convention, is likely the final chance for Rubio, and perhaps the Republican establishment, to halt the furious advance of Trump, a billionaire businessman with homes in New York and Florida. Trump’s two leading strategists in Florida have strong ties to Scott, rebutting the commonly held presumption among Trump’s critics that his campaign is all about the former reality TV show host’s celebrity and popular appeal and not about tactics.  “Nobody thought he had a shot. Nobody!” said Joe Gruters, a top Republican Party official in the state who was an early ally of Scott and who now co-chairs Trump’s Florida effort. “The establishment threw everything you can imagine at Rick Scott.” A first-term senator, Rubio has finished behind Trump in early-nomination contests to date. Rubio grew up in Miami, and his Cuban-American heritage could give him an edge with the state’s burgeoning Latino population.  But Rubio is still climbing uphill in the state race. While he has benefited from the withdrawal from the race of another Florida son, ex-Governor Jeb Bush, he trails Trump significantly. A Quinnipiac University survey released on Thursday showed Trump with 44 percent of the Republican vote, with Rubio far behind at 28 percent.  The good news for Rubio is that it’s the highest level of support he has had in the state, suggesting that he is moving upward when he needs it the most. But it may not be enough with many voters having cast early and absentee ballots. “When you have such a commanding lead like Trump has in all these states, you have the ability to focus on states like Florida where you know you can deliver the knockout blow,” Gruters said. While other Republicans campaigned in early-voting states, Trump served notice he was taking winning Florida seriously, methodically holding large-scale events across Florida, including one in October in Miami, home to both Rubio and Bush. When Bush and Rubio came to Florida at all, it was largely to raise money in closed-door fundraisers. “There’s a big difference between when you have 10,000 people showing up to a rally, hearing the battle cry and getting motivated,” Gruters said, “than when you are meeting people for $10,000-a-plate dinners where you exclude the rank-and-file members.” Bush’s campaign was in such poor shape near the end that when a Reuters correspondent visited his state campaign office in Tampa, it was deserted. All of the staff and volunteers had been sent to South Carolina for a primary vote in an unsuccessful last-ditch effort to rescue his presidential bid.  Gruters is vice-chairman of the state Republican Party, making him perhaps the highest-ranking party official in the country to embrace Trump. He heads Trump’s Florida effort with Susie Wiles of Jacksonville, who ran Scott’s 2010 campaign. He said he sees strong similarities between Scott and Trump.  “It’s not unusual for Florida to elect these non-establishment guys,” he said.  Scott was the former CEO of Columbia/HCA, the healthcare giant that ultimately settled a massive billing fraud case brought by the U.S. government during his tenure. When he entered the 2010 Republican primary, the assumption was that it was Attorney General Bill McCollum’s race to lose.  Financing his own campaign, Scott ran hard to McCollum’s right, supporting Arizona’s then highly controversial anti-immigration law and releasing an ad that ripped President Barack Obama for defending a possible mosque in New York near the site of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Like Trump, Scott portrayed himself as a businessman better suited to repairing the distressed economy than the Republican establishment was. “They both bring the same kind of attitude to government,” said Susan MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida, “that a business person can run government better than professional politicians.”  Trump has contributed $125,000 to Scott’s political-action committee since 2012. Some have speculated Scott could serve as Trump’s vice presidential nominee. But in what may serve as another lesson for Trump, Scott remains a highly polarizing figure. His relationship with the state legislature has been prickly — and his approval ratings have never crossed 50 percent. “He entered politics with half the state’s voters liking him,” MacManus said. “He’s never gone much beyond that.” Bush’s departure from the presidential race has left Rubio flying the establishment flag. His local supporters say it already has made a huge difference, both in terms of support and money. “(Bush) was dividing votes,” Tom Rooney, a U.S. congressman from Florida who is chairing Rubio’s campaign here, told Reuters. “We don’t have that issue anymore.” The Rubio campaign, in Florida as elsewhere, is not courting Trump’s voters. It believes they are unlikely to switch. Instead, Rooney said, the idea is to woo the 60-65 percent of the party that so far has not supported Trump.  To that end, Rubio has been playing catch-up, opening new offices and securing a bevy of endorsements from local politicians. But Rooney concedes while Rubio has consoled himself with second-place finishes in places such as Iowa and South Carolina, that will not be enough in Florida, especially given that the winner gets all of the state’s 99 delegates.  “When we get into the winner-take-all states,” Rooney said, “you can’t come in second and say you’re doing well.”  (Reporting by James Oliphant; Editing by Howard Goller) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 654 | Date: February 28, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Former Christie campaign finance chair slams Christie endorsement of Donald Trump |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A former finance co-chair of Chris Christie’s presidential campaign on Sunday slammed Christie’s recent endorsement of Donald Trump, according to NBC, calling for the New Jersey governor’s supporters to reject the Republican front-runner.  “Chris Christie’s endorsement of Donald Trump is an astonishing display of political opportunism. Donald Trump is unfit to be president,” Meg Whitman, chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard, said in a statement reported by NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. Christie, appearing on ABC’s “This Week” program, responded by describing Whitman “a great friend” with a different political opinion. “And that’s OK. That’s what makes this country great is that people can have differences of political opinion,” he said.   Just days before the Super Tuesday nominating contests, Christie on Friday became the most prominent mainstream Republican to get behind the billionaire Republican front-runner and former reality TV star, declaring Trump to have the best chance of defeating Democrat Hillary Clinton in the Nov. 8 U.S. presidential election. But Whitman’s statement said the New Jersey governor made his statement despite his own public misgivings about a Trump presidency. “Trump would take America on a dangerous journey. Christie knows all that and indicated as much many times publicly,” Whitman said. Trump’s unorthodox candidacy has shaken the Republican Party and has drawn increasingly vehement criticism from his rivals. But a growing number of senior Republicans are becoming resigned to the idea he will be their candidate in November. Christie, who withdrew his own White House bid earlier this month, denied that he reversed course on Trump after promising New Hampshire Union Leader newspaper publisher Joe McQuaid that he would not endorse him after the billionaire won the state’s Feb. 9 primary election. “It’s just not true. He called me two days after the primary and said, I was just told that you’re about to endorse Donald Trump. And I said to him, that’s absolutely untrue. I’m not about to endorse anybody,” Christie told ABC.  (Reporting by Alana Wise and David Morgan; Editing by Ros Russell) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 712 | Date: March 2, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: How the Republican elite turned a blind eye to the rise and rise of Donald Trump |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - One evening last June, some of the Republican Party’s wealthiest donors gathered for a cocktail party at an exclusive resort in Deer Valley, Utah, during a three-day retreat hosted by former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.      They had just heard from six presidential hopefuls. Tom Duncan, the CEO of tool-maker Positec Tool Corp, chatted with a few attendees about a fantasy ticket to secure the White House in November 2016: Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, with Senator Marco Rubio of Florida as his running mate. Duncan, for his part, liked Ohio Governor John Kasich, but also had his eye on former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina. No one mentioned Donald Trump, even though he had been signaling for months that he planned to run. Four days later, the New York property magnate declared his candidacy and within weeks had shot to the top of the polls, eclipsing all of his Republican rivals. The story of Trump’s rise has played out day after day on television and on social media, but the conversations behind closed doors among members of the Republican elite during this period have been less well documented. Many of the conversations had one thing in common: a stubborn refusal to take Trump seriously, even as fans packed sports stadiums to see him in the summer months, as he dominated media coverage of the election, and as polls showed him winning wide support among young and old, men and women.   Scenes like the one at Deer Valley would be repeated in rarified enclaves of the party elite around the country again and again in the coming months. Many in the Republican establishment believed he would eventually self-destruct or that Americans would lose patience with his bombast, his free-wheeling insults and lack of firm policies to back up his promises to “Make America Great Again.” They were wrong. Trump won a majority of the states holding nominating contests on Super Tuesday, accelerating his march to the Republican nomination.  Republican donors, strategists and campaign operatives interviewed by Reuters admitted they had misjudged the mood of voters who have thrown their support behind Trump after he promised to build a wall on the Mexican border, temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States and block Syrian refugees because they might be militants.  Trump’s spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, declined to comment for this story. Trump’s rise seemed to take place entirely outside the structures of the normal nomination process within the Republican party. For example, many attending the Conservative Political Action Conference, a gathering of grassroots activists, in February 2015, were excited by presidential hopefuls Wisconsin governor Walker and Texas Senator Ted Cruz. The annual convention is a must-stop for any Republican White House contender. In his speech, Trump tried out a now familiar pledge: build a giant southern wall to stop illegal immigrants, a vow that would later ignite his insurgent campaign and propel him well ahead of the main pack of Republican presidential hopefuls.  “His speech was well-received, but he didn’t do that well in the straw poll,” said Matt Schlapp, the chairman of the American Conservative Union, which organizes CPAC each year. Kentucky Senator Rand Paul won the poll. CPAC’s attendees were mostly conservative political activists already engaged in the electoral process. The fans who would drive Trump’s success were not. The candidates favored at CPAC have languished. Walker left the race just two months after officially entering it. Paul dropped out after the first nominating contest in February. Cruz has won just three of more than a dozen contests so far. Early in his run, Trump was a source of puzzlement for rich Republicans, such as those who gathered one Sunday in early August in the Hamptons, New York’s gilded summer retreat destination, to discuss the 2016 race. They met for lunch at a billionaire hedge fund manager’s estate near a body of water nicknamed “Goldman pond” for the concentration of financiers’ houses around it. Among the guests were former defense department officials, the chief executive of a big real estate firm, a prominent private equity partner and conservative academics, according to one of the guests, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The source, like many other guests, backed former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.  “A variety of subjects were discussed, but chief among them, I would say, was the concern and consternation over the candidacy of Donald Trump,” the source said. At the time, Trump’s rating in national polls was twice his closet rival’s, according to Reuters/Ipsos data.  The attendees discussed Trump’s rise and observed he had struck a chord with many Americans, the source said. They fretted over whether his presence would force other candidates to go negative. They hoped he wouldn’t hijack the first Republican presidential debate, then less than a week away. But they decided, however it had begun, Trump’s reign atop the polls wouldn’t last. “I think it’s literally just a matter of time before his NASCAR careens into the wall – and hopefully not into the other drivers,” the source said in an interview on Aug. 6. Trump has not crashed. And on Monday, the CEO of NASCAR, Brian France, endorsed him. Right to Rise, the outside spending group backing Bush, built up a massive war chest of more than $100 million to attack opponents who could thwart his bid for the nomination. Trump was not identified as a potential threat, not in the summer, nor in the fall of 2015, even as he eclipsed Bush, according to multiple interviews during that period with a member of the group’s leadership team. “I don’t think he’s hurting us,” the official, who did not want to be identified, said in an interview last fall. Trump would be a footnote in the race by January or February 2016, he predicted.  Bush bowed out on Feb. 21 after months of struggles were capped by a poor showing in the South Carolina primary. Duncan, the Positec CEO, said conversations he had with representatives from three campaigns as recently as November and December barely touched on Trump.  “There was so much time left,” he said. “I honestly thought that he would implode.”  Now there is little time left, and the party’s establishment can only look back at early warning signs they missed. One came in January 2015 at the Iowa Freedom Summit, a Republican “cattle call” for White House hopefuls that marked the unofficial start of the 2016 presidential race. Attendance spiked after organizers added Trump to the agenda.  “When we announced Donald Trump, the event took on a life of its own,” said David Bossie, the president of the conservative advocacy group Citizens United and the conference’s organizer. “I don’t believe it’s possible, if you were not in a coma, for anyone in the establishment, or the media, or on planet Earth, to have missed Donald Trump’s ascendancy to be the leading Republican for the nomination.”  (Additional reporting by Steve Holland and Jim Oliphant, editing by Caren Bohan and Ross Colvin) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 723 | Date: March 3, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Text: Mitt Romney speech slamming Donald Trump |
 | Content: (Reuters) - The following is the full text of the speech delivered on Thursday by former Massachusetts Governor and 2012 Republican nominee for U.S. president Mitt Romney to the Institute of Politics at the University of Utah. I am not here to announce my candidacy for office.  I am not going to endorse a candidate today. Instead, I would like to offer my perspective on the nominating process of my party. In 1964, days before the presidential election which, incidentally, we lost, Ronald Reagan went on national television and challenged America saying that it was a “Time for Choosing.” He saw two paths for America, one that embraced conservative principles dedicated to lifting people out of poverty and helping create opportunity for all, and the other, an oppressive government that would lead America down a darker, less free path. I’m no Ronald Reagan and this is a different moment but I believe with all my heart and soul that we face another time for choosing, one that will have profound consequences for the Republican Party and more importantly, for the country. I say this in part because of my conviction that America is poised to lead the world for another century. Our technology engines, our innovation dynamic, and the ambition and skill of our people will propel our economy and raise our standard of living. America will remain as it is today, the envy of the world. Warren Buffett was 100% right when he said last week that “the babies being born in America today are the luckiest crop in history.” That doesn’t mean we don’t have real problems and serious challenges. At home, poverty persists and wages are stagnant. The horrific massacres of Paris and San Bernardino, the nuclear ambitions of the Iranian mullahs, the aggressions of Putin, the growing assertiveness of China and the nuclear tests of North Korea confirm that we live in troubled and dangerous times. But if we make the right choices, America’s future will be even better than our past and better than our present. On the other hand, if we make improvident choices, the bright horizon I foresee will never materialize. Let me put it plainly, if we Republicans choose Donald Trump as our nominee, the prospects for a safe and prosperous future are greatly diminished. Let me explain why. First, the economy: If Donald Trump’s plans were ever implemented, the country would sink into a prolonged recession. A few examples: His proposed 35% tariff-like penalties would instigate a trade war that would raise prices for consumers, kill export jobs, and lead entrepreneurs and businesses to flee America. His tax plan, in combination with his refusal to reform entitlements and to honestly address spending would balloon the deficit and the national debt. So even as Donald Trump has offered very few specific economic plans, what little he has said is enough to know that he would be very bad for American workers and for American families. But wait, you say, isn’t he a huge business success that knows what he’s talking about? No he isn’t. His bankruptcies have crushed small businesses and the men and women who worked for them. He inherited his business, he didn’t create it. And what ever happened to Trump Airlines? How about Trump University? And then there’s Trump Magazine and Trump Vodka and Trump Steaks, and Trump Mortgage? A business genius he is not. Now not every policy Donald Trump has floated is bad. He wants to repeal and replace Obamacare. He wants to bring jobs home from China and Japan. But his prescriptions to do these things are flimsy at best.  At the last debate, all he could remember about his healthcare plan was to remove insurance boundaries between states. Successfully bringing jobs home requires serious policy and reforms that make America the place businesses want to plant and grow. You can’t punish business into doing the things you want. Frankly, the only serious policy proposals that deal with the broad range of national challenges we confront, come today from Ted Cruz, Marco Rubio, and John Kasich. One of these men should be our nominee.  I know that some people want the race to be over. They look at history and say a trend like Mr. Trump’s isn’t going to be stopped. Perhaps. But the rules of political history have pretty much all been shredded during this campaign. If the other candidates can find common ground, I believe we can nominate a person who can win the general election and who will represent the values and policies of conservatism. Given the current delegate selection process, this means that I would vote for Marco Rubio in Florida, for John Kasich in Ohio, and for Ted Cruz or whichever one of the other two contenders has the best chance of beating Mr. Trump in a given state. Let me turn to national security and the safety of our homes and loved ones. Trump’s bombast is already alarming our allies and fueling the enmity of our enemies. Insulting all Muslims will keep many of them from fully engaging with us in the urgent fight against ISIS. And for what purpose? Muslim terrorists would only have to lie about their religion to enter the country. What he said on “60 Minutes” about Syria and ISIS has to go down as the most ridiculous and dangerous idea of the campaign season: Let ISIS take out Assad, he said, and then we can pick up the remnants. Think about that: Let the most dangerous terror organization the world has ever known take over a country? This is recklessness in the extreme. Donald Trump tells us that he is very, very smart. I’m afraid that when it comes to foreign policy he is very, very not smart. I am far from the first to conclude that Donald Trump lacks the temperament of be president.  After all, this is an individual who mocked a disabled reporter, who attributed a reporter’s questions to her menstrual cycle, who mocked a brilliant rival who happened to be a woman due to her appearance, who bragged about his marital affairs, and who laces his public speeches with vulgarity. Donald Trump says he admires Vladimir Putin, while has called George W. Bush a liar. That is a twisted example of evil trumping good. There is dark irony in his boasts of his sexual exploits during the Vietnam War while John McCain, whom he has mocked, was imprisoned and tortured. Dishonesty is Trump’s hallmark: He claimed that he had spoken clearly and boldly against going into Iraq. Wrong, he spoke in favor of invading Iraq. He said he saw thousands of Muslims in New Jersey celebrating 9/11. Wrong, he saw no such thing.  He imagined it. His is not the temperament of a stable, thoughtful leader. His imagination must not be married to real power. The President of the United States has long been the leader of the free world. The president and yes the nominees of the country’s great parties help define America to billions of people. All of them bear the responsibility of being an example for our children and grandchildren. Think of Donald Trump’s personal qualities, the bullying, the greed, the showing off, the misogyny, the absurd third grade theatrics. We have long referred to him as “The Donald.” He is the only person in America to whom we have added an article before his name. It wasn’t because he had attributes we admired. Now imagine your children and your grandchildren acting the way he does.  Will you welcome that?  Haven’t we seen before what happens when people in prominent positions fail the basic responsibility of honorable conduct?  We have, and it always injures our families and our country. Watch how he responds to my speech today. Will he talk about our policy differences or will he attack me with every imaginable low road insult? This may tell you what you need to know about his temperament, his stability, and his suitability to be president. Trump relishes any poll that reflects what he thinks of himself. But polls are also saying that he will lose to Hillary Clinton.   On Hillary Clinton’s watch at the State Department, America’s interests were diminished in every corner of the world. She compromised our national secrets, dissembled to the families of the slain, and jettisoned her most profound beliefs to gain presidential power.  For the last three decades, the Clintons have lived at the intersection of money and politics, trading their political influence to enrich their personal finances. They embody the term “crony capitalism.” It disgusts the American people and causes them to lose faith in our political process.  A person so untrustworthy and dishonest as Hillary Clinton must not become president. But a Trump nomination enables her victory.  The audio and video of the infamous Tapper-Trump exchange on the Ku Klux Klan will play a hundred thousand times on cable and who knows how many million times on social media.  There are a number of people who claim that Mr. Trump is a con man, a fake. There is indeed evidence of that. Mr. Trump has changed his positions not just over the years, but over the course of the campaign, and on the Ku Klux Klan, daily for three days in a row. We will only really know if he is the real deal or a phony if he releases his tax returns and the tape of his interview with the New York Times. I predict that there are more bombshells in his tax returns. I predict that he doesn’t give much if anything to the disabled and to our veterans. I predict that he told the New York Times that his immigration talk is just that: talk. And I predict that despite his promise to do so, first made over a year ago, he will never ever release his tax returns. Never.  Not the returns under audit, not even the returns that are no longer being audited. He has too much to hide. Nor will he authorize the Times to release the tapes. If I’m right, you will have all the proof you need to know that Donald Trump is a phony. Attacking me as he surely will won’t prove him any less of a phony. It’s entirely in his hands to prove me wrong. All he has to do is to release his back taxes like he promised he would, and let us hear what he said behind closed doors to the New York Times. Ronald Reagan used to quote a Scottish philosopher who predicted that democracies and civilizations couldn’t last more than about 200 years. John Adams wrote this: “Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There never was a democracy yet that did not commit suicide.” I believe that America has proven these dire predictions wrong for two reasons. First, we have been blessed with great presidents, with giants among us. Men of character, integrity and selflessness have led our nation from its very beginning. None were perfect: each surely made mistakes. But in every case, they acted out of the desire to do what was right for America and for freedom. The second reason is because we are blessed with a great people, people who at every critical moment of choosing have put the interests of the country above their own.  These two things are related: our presidents time and again have called on us to rise to the occasion. John F. Kennedy asked us to consider what we could do for our country. Lincoln drew upon the better angels of our nature to save the union.  I understand the anger Americans feel today. In the past, our presidents have channeled that anger, and forged it into resolve, into endurance and high purpose, and into the will to defeat the enemies of freedom. Our anger was transformed into energy directed for good.  Mr. Trump is directing our anger for less than noble purposes. He creates scapegoats of Muslims and Mexican immigrants, he calls for the use of torture and for killing the innocent children and family members of terrorists.  He cheers assaults on protesters. He applauds the prospect of twisting the Constitution to limit first amendment freedom of the press. This is the very brand of anger that has led other nations into the abyss. Here’s what I know. Donald Trump is a phony, a fraud. His promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University. He’s playing the American public for suckers: He gets a free ride to the White House and all we get is a lousy hat. His domestic policies would lead to recession. His foreign policies would make America and the world less safe. He has neither the temperament nor the judgment to be president. And his personal qualities would mean that America would cease to be a shining city on a hill.  America has greatness ahead. This is a time for choosing. God bless us to choose a nominee who will make that vision a reality. |

Article 742 | Date: March 3, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump Jr. appears with white supremacist on radio show |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - One of Donald Trump’s sons appeared along with a white supremacist while giving an interview on a conservative radio show, adding to concerns that the front-runner in the battle to be the Republican candidate in November’s presidential election is willing to accept support from extremist supporters. Donald Trump Jr., who is actively campaigning for his father, gave an interview on Tuesday on “Liberty Roundtable,” a conservative Utah-based radio show hosted by Sam Bushman. During the show he was questioned by James Edwards, another radio host whose show “The Political Cesspool” is described by the Southern Poverty Law Center, a leading U.S. civil rights group, as “racist and anti-Semitic.”  During the interview, conducted over the telephone, Trump Jr. talked about what a good father Donald Trump was and how his campaign is changing the Republican Party. “It’s not a campaign anymore, it’s a movement,” he told his interviewers. (here) Edwards said on his blog on Tuesday he would rebroadcast the 20-minute interview on Saturday on 'The Political Cesspool.' here The show, founded in 2005 and syndicated by Bushman’s Liberty News Radio organization, has featured such extremists as former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke and Holocaust denier Willis Carto. Edwards also said on his blog he had attended a Memphis rally for the billionaire candidate as a credentialed media member last Saturday. The Trump campaign, asked about an interview in the presence of the Tennessee-based Edwards, denied any knowledge of it. The campaign also said it did not know about Edwards’ personal views. “The campaign provided media credentials to everyone that requested access to the event on Saturday in Memphis. There were close to 200 reporters in attendance and we do not personally vet each individual. The campaign had no knowledge of his personal views and strongly condemns them.  “Donald Trump Jr. was not in attendance and although he served as a surrogate for his father on several radio programs over the past week, to his knowledge and that of the campaign, he did not participate in an interview with this individual,” campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in an email.     Edwards, in an email, directed questions about the interview to Bushman, but said in a statement: “My show, The Political Cesspool, promotes a proud, paleoconservative Christian worldview, and we reject media descriptions of our work as “white supremacist,” “pro-slavery” and other such scare words. “As I clearly wrote in yesterday’s article, in no way should anyone interpret our press credentialing and subsequent interview with Donald Trump, Jr. as any kind of endorsement by the Trump campaign.” Donald Trump won a majority of the states holding nominating contests on Super Tuesday, accelerating his march to the Republican nomination. He has promised to build a wall on the Mexican border, temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States and block Syrian refugees because they might be militants, all policies popular with some U.S. right-wing groups. Republican leaders in the U.S. Congress on Tuesday condemned white supremacist groups after Trump earlier failed to disavow support for former Klan leader Duke, but the leaders declined further comment on Trump’s White House bid. House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan said any Republican nominee must reject any group “built on bigotry” while Senate leader Mitch McConnell said Senate Republicans condemned groups such as the Klan and “everything they stand for.”       (Reporting by Eric Walsh; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 869 | Date: March 10, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Rubio says he regrets getting personal with Donald Trump |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio voiced regret on Wednesday about making personal attacks against front-runner Donald Trump, a strategy that has failed to slow the New York billionaire’s momentum.Rubio, Trump, Ohio Governor John Kasich and U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, the four remaining Republican presidential candidates, participated in a round of Fox News-sponsored town hall events a day before they meet for another debate on Thursday in Miami. Rubio, whose campaign is fighting for survival after a series of disappointing performances in nominating contests for the Nov. 8 election, has drawn fire for a line of attack in recent weeks in which he got personal with Trump. He called him a con artist and said among other things that he had small hands, a charge that Trump took to mean as questioning the size of his manhood. Until Rubio got personal, the U.S. senator from Florida had largely stayed above the fray and had focused his assault on Trump from a policy standpoint. He told Fox News’ “The Kelly File” that if he had to do it over again, he would handle the issue differently. “My kids were embarrassed by it. My wife didn’t like it. I don’t think it reflects good. That’s not who I am. That’s not what my campaign is going to be about or will ever be about again,” Rubio said. “I’d do it differently – on the personal stuff. I’m not telling you he didn’t deserve it, but that’s not who I am and that’s not what I want to be,” he added. Rubio, 44, fared poorly when Michigan, Mississippi, Idaho and Hawaii voted on Tuesday. He needs to win his home state of Florida next Tuesday or face calls for him to exit the race. He said opinion polls showing him lagging far behind Trump in Florida were not accurate. “The fact of the matter is the only poll that counts is the one they’ll take on Tuesday when they count the votes that these people are going to cast and we’re going to win in Florida,” he said. Cruz, 45, looking to emerge as the main Trump alternative should Rubio and Kasich falter, said he would keep the focus of the campaign on substantive issues. “I don’t have any views on Donald Trump’s anatomy,” Cruz said at his Fox News town hall. Kasich, at his Fox News town hall, said he believed he had a path forward if he wins his home state of Ohio on Tuesday, but that it involved a convention fight when Republicans gather to officially pick their nominee in Cleveland in July. A contested convention would result if Trump, 69, does not win the required 1,237 delegates, forcing delegates to decide whether to back him at the convention or find a consensus candidate such as Kasich, 63. President Gerald Ford and challenger Ronald Reagan staged a spirited nomination fight at the 1976 Republican National Convention, but no Republican convention has gone beyond a single ballot since Thomas Dewey’s third-ballot win in 1948.  Trump, who has come under withering attack by mainstream Republicans for his statements on Muslims, illegal immigrants and trade policy, said at his Fox News town hall he had attracted many new voters to the Republican Party with his crossover appeal. He said establishment Republicans would be risking the energy he had brought to the race by trying to prevent him from winning. “They would be so foolish to throw it away,” he told host Sean Hannity.  (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Peter Cooney) This article was funded in part by SAP. It was independently created by the Reuters editorial staff. SAP had no editorial involvement in its creation or production. |

Article 979 | Date: March 17, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Kremlin says Donald Trump pre-election clip demonizes Russia |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin on Thursday condemned a pre-election video in the United States promoting Republican front-runner Donald Trump at Hillary Clinton’s expense, complaining that it unfairly “demonized” Russia. The Kremlin did not spell out what its exact objection to the political attack video was. But its portrayal of President Vladimir Putin as one of Washington’s toughest opponents alongside Islamic State, a group the Kremlin says it is fighting in Syria, is likely to have stirred anger among officials.   “I saw this clip. I do not know for sure if Vladimir Putin saw it. (But) our attitude is negative,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told a teleconference with reporters. The video tries to cast doubt over the ability of Clinton, the Democratic Party’s likely presidential candidate, to contend with Putin in the event of her winning the November election. Presenting what it suggests are the United States’ toughest opponents, it shows Putin throwing an opponent in a judo bout before cutting to footage of Mohammed Emwazi, the late Islamic State executioner nicknamed “Jihadi John”.    It then shifts to a clip of Clinton which has been edited to make it appear as if she is barking like a dog. Putin is then shown laughing. “It’s an open secret for us that demonizing Russia and whatever is linked to Russia is unfortunately a mandatory hallmark of America’s election campaign,” said Peskov. “We always sincerely regret this and wish the (U.S.) electoral process were conducted without such references to our country.” Until now, the Kremlin has largely held off criticising Trump. Putin and Trump have lavished praise on one another in the past after the Republican front-runner spoke out in favour of building bridges with the Kremlin and of working together to fight terrorism. Russian state TV, which usually closely reflects the Kremlin’s world view, has also generally been more positive about Trump than the other presidential candidates, suggesting his policies are more Russia-friendly. But state TV has at the same time complained about what it says is the anti-Russian tenor of the overall campaign, criticising most candidates for what it has described as their hysterical Cold War-style statements on Russia. The United States has accused Russia during its aerial bombing campaign in Syria of not targeting Islamic State targets with the same ferocity or frequency it has demonstrated against what Washington says are more moderate groups opposed to President Bashar al-Assad.   Moscow, an ally of Assad, has denied that charge, declaring Islamic State a dangerous threat to its own national security. |

Article 1024 | Date: March 21, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Gundlach sees Donald Trump nomination causing 'global growth scare' |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Jeffrey Gundlach, the widely followed investor who runs DoubleLine Capital, foresees a “global growth scare” between now and the end of the summer, triggered by a presidential nomination of Donald Trump. “That is where I see the vulnerabilities,” Gundlach said in a telephone interview on Monday. Trump’s protectionist policies could mean negative global growth, Gundlach warned. “As he gets the nomination, the markets and investors are going to worry about it more. You will see a downgrading of global growth based on geopolitical risks. You must factor this into your risk-management.”  Trump has blamed currency devaluations around the world for hurting the U.S. economy and costing American jobs, and has called for a tougher U.S. stance on trade. “We just sit back and do nothing,” Trump said earlier this month. “That’s getting to be very dangerous as far as I’m concerned.” A more effective economic move than devaluations would be charging a tax on products made abroad and sold in the United States, particularly those from China, Trump said. Gundlach, who oversees $93 billion at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital, said it isn’t premature to think about a Trump nomination. “You have to entertain the hypothetical.” Phone calls and emails to Trump’s spokeswoman were not returned.   For its part, stock markets, which moved into positive territory after the U.S. Federal Reserve’s dovish move last week, will continue to track oil prices, Gundlach said, who was prescient in his call for $40 per barrel. “I think oil will have a hard time moving up to $45,” Gundlach said. The risk-reward proposition is “so bad right now because you had this easy rally” in risk markets, Gundlach said. He added: “No way I would buy junk bonds at this level.”  Gundlach also criticized Fed officials for changing their stance on interest rates. “They’ve been flip-flopping like crazy over the past few months,” he said.      Just three days after the Fed held interest rates and cautioned “global economic and financial developments continue to pose risks,” Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said on Monday that the United States may be in line for an interest rate hike as soon as April given “sufficient momentum” in U.S. growth.  Gundlach said it’s become obvious Fed officials are seeking guidance from markets. “If it is going to be about the markets, they should just come out and say, ‘If the S&P hits 2,100 we will tighten - and if it goes to 1,900 we will ease,” Gundlach said. |

Article 1109 | Date: March 27, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Mexicans burn Donald Trump effigies in Easter ritual |
 | Content: MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexicans celebrating an Easter ritual late on Saturday burnt effigies of U.S. Republican presidential hopeful Donald Trump, whose anti-immigrant views have sparked outrage south of the American border. In Mexico City’s poor La Merced neighborhood, hundreds of cheering residents yelled “death” and various insults as they watched the explosion of the grinning papier-mâché mock-up of the real estate tycoon, replete with blue blazer, red tie and his trademark tuft of blond hair. Media reported that Trump effigies burned across Mexico, from Puebla to Mexico’s industrial hub Monterrey. The burning is part of a widespread Mexican Holy Week tradition where neighborhoods burn effigies to represent Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus Christ according to the Bible. The effigies are often modeled on unpopular political figures. “Since he started his campaign and began talking about immigrants, Mexico, and Mexicans, I said ‘I’ve got to get this guy,’” said Felipe Linares, the artisan who crafted Trump and whose family has been making Judases for more than 50 years.  Trump, the front-runner to win the Republican nomination for the Nov. 8 election, has drawn fire in Mexico with his campaign vow to build a wall along the southern U.S. border to keep out illegal immigrants and drugs, and to make Mexico pay for it. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto has said his country will not pay for the wall and likened Trump’s “strident tone” to the ascent of dictators like Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini. Trump, who has also aroused concern among many in his own party with his proposals, has accused Mexico of sending rapists and drug runners across the border and vowed to increase fees on some Mexican visas and all border crossing cards to help make Mexico pay for the wall. Judas effigies are burnt in villages and towns in several Latin American countries such as Venezuela and in parts of Greece. Anthropologists say the practice serves a symbolic function to overcome divisions and unite communities around a common enemy.  Linares has also done mock-ups of corrupt former union leader Elba Esther Gordillo and President Enrique Pena Nieto, whose popularity has been hit by conflict-of-interest scandals and the disappearance of 43 students at the hands of corrupt police. |

Article 1185 | Date: April 4, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Behind Donald Trump, a son-in-law who is also an adviser |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Before introducing Donald Trump to roughly a dozen Republican lawmakers at the Washington law offices of Jones Day, U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions paused to acknowledge the man he said had facilitated the closed-door talks. He said it was Jared Kushner, a 35-year-old real estate investor and newspaper owner, who had suggested the get-together last month, arguing that it would enable Trump to win more allies on Capitol Hill, according to a person in the room.  Kushner is also Trump’s son-in-law, having married the Republican presidential front-runner’s daughter Ivanka in 2009.  A real-estate tycoon like his father-in-law, Kushner has emerged as one of a very few advisers as Trump seeks the Republican nomination to the Nov. 8 election, according to five people close to Trump. It is especially rare given that Trump styles himself as his own best adviser and has said he consults only a few people despite a promise to hire the country’s top minds once he becomes president.  While “well respected,” Kushner has no official campaign role, Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said. She confirmed however that Kushner had helped with the Sessions meeting and had informally advised the candidate on Israel and in other areas.  In an interview Kushner’s friend David Schulhof, founder of a music publishing company, cited a level-headedness and listening skill that would make Kushner a calming influence. This could be helpful to Trump, 69, who entered the race 10 months ago hailing his having never held public office as an asset, but whose campaign has been rocked by turbulence over remarks offensive to women, Muslims, immigrants, party loyalists and others. At times Kushner has urged Trump to behave like a more traditional candidate, stressing the importance of building relationships with politicians and traditionally active donors, say the sources close to Trump, speaking on condition of anonymity. They also say Kushner can use friendships like the ones he has with media mogul Rupert Murdoch and billionaire Ronald Perelman as a bridge to influential people with whom his father-in-law is not close. Neither Murdoch nor Perelman would comment for this story. An Orthodox Jew, whose wife Ivanka converted to Judaism before they married, Kushner and his family have connections to Israel. Along with his father, also a prominent real-estate developer, Kushner was listed in a 2015 report by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) as a benefactor for its real estate committee, which required a donation of at least $36,000 to the powerful pro-Israel lobbying group. Kushner’s parents donated $20 million two years ago to a medical school campus in Jerusalem now named after them.  Using his family and business ties, Kushner arranged a series of meetings for Trump during a trip the candidate planned to make to Israel last year, the sources say. The trip never happened. Trump scrapped it after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu condemned his proposal to ban Muslims from entering the United States. Trump later suggested that if elected he would not take sides in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians, a stance he said would help him negotiate a peace deal but which was unusually neutral for an American politician looking to court voters on Israel.    Ahead of AIPAC’s annual conference last month in Washington, Kushner advised his father-in-law to lay out concrete policies that would help smooth over relations with the Jewish community, according to two sources. He further advised him to use a teleprompter for the speech, ditching his usual conversational style, the people close to Trump said.  It was also Kushner who fielded a call from Israel’s ambassador to the United States, Ron Dermer, who wanted to offer Trump the Israeli government’s perspective ahead of the AIPAC speech, according to the sources. Dermer’s office declined to comment. In the end, Trump delivered an uncharacteristically detailed speech to the 18,000 people who attended the conference, outlining a series of policy positions broadly aligned with AIPAC’s. An AIPAC spokesman declined to comment. Trump told attendees that Palestinians must scrub hatred of Israel from their educational system and stop naming public places after people who attacked Israel. He said the United States must stand with Israel in rejecting attempts by the United Nations to impose restrictions on Israel or parameters for a peace deal. He criticized the U.S. deal with Iran as bad for Israel.  While helping Trump craft the speech, Kushner sought advice from the politically connected editor of his newspaper, the New York Observer. The editor, Ken Kurson, a former speech writer for former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, wrote in an email to Reuters that he reviewed the speech before Trump delivered it. Trump has loomed large in Kushner’s life since day one of his marriage. The New York Post reported that invitations to Kushner’s wedding, held at a Trump golf club in New Jersey, included a flier advertising Trump’s other golf properties. Kushner, who with his wife has taken family vacations with News Corp (NWSA.O) owner Murdoch and his ex-wife Wendi Deng, has worked to calm Murdoch’s ire with Trump over the candidate’s criticism of the company’s Fox News Channel and star anchor Megyn Kelly, two people familiar with his activities say. During regular phone calls and lunches Kushner tries both to soothe Murdoch and stump for his father-in-law, these people said.  Despite his influence behind the scenes, Kushner keeps a largely low profile on the campaign trail. During a Trump rally in South Carolina last November, he hung back while other family members took the stage until his father-in-law called him out. “Where’s Jared? Jared get up here,” Trump shouted. Kushner, clad in charcoal-colored pants and a black quilted down vest, shuffled up, hands jammed in his pockets. “Jared’s a very successful developer and he just loves politics now,” Trump said, adding with a bit of gleeful teasing: “Look at him. See the way he dresses?” (Story corrects real estate billionaire to billionaire in 10th paragraph characterization of Ronald Perelman). |

Article 1456 | Date: April 24, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump's unlikely villain: piano-playing Reince Priebus |
 | Content: HOLLYWOOD, Fla. (Reuters) - Reince Priebus, the unassuming head of the Republican National Committee, often plays the piano late at night, sometimes with a glass of wine nearby. Tickling the ivories is a lifelong passion for Priebus and he has been doing it “more than usual” lately, he told Reuters in an interview last week. It’s his way of easing the stress from the most combustible Republican presidential race in generations.  It has been a rough ride for the 44-year-old party chairman from Wisconsin, who presided over a three-day meeting of Republican officials in Florida last week. One reason for all that piano playing is the unconventional campaign being run by Republican front-runner Donald Trump. The bellicose billionaire has said that the party rules are “rigged” and could give Trump’s chief rival, Ted Cruz, a chance to become the nominee through a brokered convention, even if Trump racks up more victories in state nominating contests. He said Priebus “should be ashamed of himself.”  Yet privately, the relationship between the two has improved, their aides told Reuters. Priebus has taken frequent calls from Trump to explain nomination rules or simply hear him out, aides said. But Priebus also has been catching fire from anti-Trump forces who want him to drop his neutrality and do more to thwart Trump’s march toward the nomination ahead of the party’s convention in Cleveland in July, when it must settle on a nominee to face Democrat Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders in the Nov. 8 election. If Trump wins the nomination - a prospect increasingly likely after his string of state victories - Priebus will need to unify his party or risk losing in November. On Friday, when Priebus urged the party to rally around the eventual nominee, the blowback from the stop-Trump crowd was intense. “The best way for the Republican Party to unite, win and to grow is to reject Donald Trump,” said Rory Cooper, senior adviser to a group called #NeverTrump. Adding to Priebus’s dilemma is his task of choreographing a convention when the outcome remains uncertain. In most elections, the nomination is settled by late spring, giving party leaders time to focus on the messaging and stagecraft of the summer convention, which is typically centered on building excitement for the nominee. Priebus must plan for several scenarios: a traditional win in which Trump gets the 1,237 delegates he needs ahead of the convention; a contested convention in which Trump still wins; or the selection of Cruz or Ohio Governor John Kasich on a second or third ballot. The Republican convention has not been contested since 1952 and Henry Barbour, an RNC member from Mississippi, noted it was “uncharted waters” for the party not to have presumptive nominee so late in the cycle. Some corporations are so alarmed about how the race has turned out they have decided not to pour funding into sponsoring the convention. There also is the potential for protests of Trump in Cleveland. Trump himself has warned of riots in a contested convention. Trump’s criticism of the nominating rules has been jarring to party officials and the feud could undermine efforts to unify the party. Colorado Republican Party Chairman Steve House said on Facebook his family received death threats after Cruz swept the state’s 34 delegates. In private discussions with Trump, Priebus said he talks about “the daily events of the day or the week or the moment or the debate.” He also talks regularly with Cruz and Kasich. Does Trump, with his inflammatory remarks, get under his skin? “No, he doesn’t because I kind of know where he’s coming from. I’m not unfamiliar with his opinions. So it doesn’t really bother me because I know what the truth is,” Priebus said. Trump senior adviser Paul Manafort said Trump and Priebus were “communicating frequently” and communicating better these days. “They don’t agree on everything but they agree to try to work things out and they are working things out,” he said. An RNC member close to Priebus agreed. “They’re not best buddies or anything but they have a pretty good relationship,” the member said. “I consider all this back and forth as a little bit of ‘heat of the battle’ tensions.” Trump’s complaints about the party’s system have prompted some of his own supporters to roll their eyes in dismay. “He ain’t read the rules,” said Ada Fisher, a retired physician and Republican National Committee member from North Carolina, who was wearing a Trump button at the Florida event. The prevailing opinion among RNC members was that Trump is simply energizing his anti-establishment supporters, a point hammered home by Manafort, who privately told party leaders Trump is “projecting an image” and will transition to a more serious demeanor. RNC members vow to protect Priebus from any attempt to replace him should Trump become the nominee. “I think any effort to oust Reince will fail and it’s not the job of our nominee to select the RNC chair. It’s the job of the RNC members to select the RNC chair,” said Matt Moore, chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party. |

Article 1550 | Date: May 2, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Indiana puts Donald Trump’s evangelical support to test |
 | Content: INDIANAPOLIS (Reuters) - Donald Trump’s success in the race for the White House may well depend on the support of Republican evangelicals suspicious of the front-runner’s more liberal side as he discloses his social views. A New York businessman who has never held public office, Trump has had some success with evangelicals in states such as South Carolina.  But there are signs of slippage on the eve of Tuesday’s nominating contest in Indiana, a conservative Midwestern U.S. state that has voted Republican in nine of the last 10 presidential elections. Trump, 69, has taken stances on Planned Parenthood family clinics and gay and transgender rights that raise Christian conservative concerns, including in such states as Indiana where they make up a high proportion of voters. A new NBC/Wall Street Journal/Marist opinion poll shows Trump with a wide lead in Indiana, 49 percent, to 34 percent for his nearest rival, U.S. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, and 13 percent for Ohio Governor John Kasich.     Most previous Indiana opinion polls showed a tighter race with Trump leading Cruz by only a few points. A Trump win in the state could be crucial to his chances of securing the nomination but may also offer a gauge of whether he can rally evangelicals. Cruz, 45, emphasizes his Christian faith on the campaign trail. Focused on Indiana, he says Trump is not an authentic Republican. A new Cruz advertisement brands Trump and Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton as two sides of the same coin. “Both support the Obamacare individual mandate. Both support taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood. Both support letting transgender men go in little girls’ bathrooms,” it says.  Trump has praised Planned Parenthood family clinics as having helped millions of women even if he opposes funding its abortion component. He backs letting transgender people use the bathroom “they feel is appropriate.” If evangelicals are unenthusiastic, they could sit out the Nov. 8 general election, potentially handing the White House to former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, or her rival, U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders. “The fear is a lot of them are going to stay home,” said Bob Vander Plaats, a leading evangelical activist in Iowa. “You can’t win without our base.” Trump rankled some social conservatives by criticizing North Carolina’s controversial law that requires transgender people to use the bathroom of the gender of their birth. “The restroom thing is big with a lot of people,” said Shan Rutherford, a pastor in Greenwood, Indiana. Rutherford said he was initially drawn to Trump’s message, but was put off by his stance on social issues and his insulting demeanor on the campaign trail. Rutherford, who backs Cruz, said if the White House race came down to Trump versus Clinton, he might not vote. The Pew Research Center says 45 percent of registered Republican voters nationwide identify themselves as “born-again” or “evangelical.” Pew also found that only 44 percent of Republicans view Trump as a religious person. By contrast, 76 percent viewed Cruz that way. Cruz has assailed Trump for his stance on the North Carolina bathroom law. Trump has said there have been few problems with transgender people using bathrooms. He also has said the question should be left to states to decide. Cruz charges allowing grown men in bathrooms with little girls is “opening the door for predators.” On Friday, Cruz was endorsed by Indiana Governor Mike Pence, a social conservative who last year signed a bill that critics said could be used by business owners to deny services to same-sex couples. Trump has said he supports prohibiting companies from firing employees based on sexual orientation, although he has criticized last year’s U.S. Supreme Court decision legalizing same-sex marriage. Cruz has deployed his father, Rafael Cruz, an evangelical minister, as a surrogate in churches in Indiana. A Reuters/Ipsos tracking poll showed 19 percent of respondents would not vote in a White House race between Trump and Clinton. But when filtered to those who attend church nearly every week, the number jumped to 28 percent. The party cannot afford a low turnout in November.  Demographic trends in recent years have favored Democrats, with the pool of Republican voters, overwhelmingly white and older, steadily shrinking. Eric Houseman, a paramedic from Indianapolis who attended a Cruz rally in Franklin, Indiana, predicted Trump would lose support through such missteps as inaccurately referring in January to a book of the Bible as “Two Corinthians” rather than Second Corinthians or Corinthians II. “People are beginning to see he’s a lot of talk,” Houseman said. Upstate, Ron Johnson, pastor at the Living Stones Church in Crown Point, votes Republican but was adamant that he would not vote for Trump. Trump does not share his Christian values, Johnson said.     “I am not going to be part of the demise of this country,” he said. But Mark Burns, a South Carolina pastor who has become a leading Trump surrogate in the media, said Trump’s appeal to evangelicals does not stem from the strength of his religious views. “We’re not voting for the next pastor. We’re voting for the next commander-in-chief,” Burns said. |

Article 1759 | Date: May 17, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump files disclosure of $10 billion in net worth |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Donald Trump has filed a new personal financial disclosure form that details a net worth of more than $10 billion, the Republican presidential candidate’s campaign said on Tuesday. The party’s presumptive nominee has refused so far to release his income tax statements, which are normally released by presidential candidates. That decision has drawn criticism from likely Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.  The personal disclosure form is identical to one Trump filed shortly after announcing his candidacy last year. Critics have said the billionaire real estate developer is inflating his net worth in the forms and that his tax documents would provide a more accurate depiction of how much money he has. “I have built an incredible company and have accumulated one of the greatest portfolios of real estate assets, many of which are considered to be among the finest and most iconic properties in the world,” Trump said in a statement about his disclosure. |

Article 1771 | Date: May 17, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump to meet with Henry Kissinger: Washington Post |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump is scheduled to meet on Wednesday with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, the Washington Post reported on Monday, citing three people close to Trump. The meeting in New York comes after weeks of telephone conversations between Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, and Kissinger, who was a top adviser to Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, the Post said. Last week, Trump met with former Secretary of State James Baker, who told a congressional hearing on the same day as the meeting that Trump’s foreign policy proposals would make the world a less stable place. Trump has been criticized for suggesting the United States should rethink the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and that Japan and South Korea should consider getting nuclear weapons to defend themselves. |

Article 1805 | Date: May 19, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Hillary Clinton says Donald Trump unqualified to be president |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton said on Thursday Republican candidate Donald Trump is unqualified to be president of the United States.  “I know how hard this job is, and I know we need steadiness as well as strength and smarts in it, and I have concluded that he is not qualified to be president of the United States,” she said in an interview on CNN. |

Article 2097 | Date: June 12, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: After Orlando shooting, Donald Trump reiterates Muslim ban |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Donald Trump, saying that he had predicted attacks on American soil by terrorists, reiterated his call for a ban on foreign-born Muslims entering the country, in a comment posted on Twitter.  “What has happened in Orlando is just the beginning. Our leadership is weak and ineffective. I called it and asked for the ban. Must be tough,” Trump wrote on Twitter. |

Article 2219 | Date: June 21, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Republican Donald Trump says he has 'unlimited' access to campaign money |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump said he is willing to tap into his personal funds to cover any fundraising deficit he faces against Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, after finishing May more than $40 million behind her in cash.  “If need be, there could be unlimited ‘cash on hand’ as I would put up my own money, as I have already done through the primaries, spending over $50 million,” Trump said in a statement. “Our campaign is leaner and more efficient, like our government should be.” |

Article 2275 | Date: June 24, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: For Donald Trump, going on about golf is par for the course |
 | Content: TURNBERRY, Scotland (Reuters) - Donald Trump flew all night from New York to Scotland to talk about his renovated Turnberry golf course and, given the chance to open up on the topic, he was rhapsodic. At a news conference, the Republican’s opening ode to Turnberry was what greeted American cable TV viewers as they woke to the news that Britain had voted to part ways with the European Union. The presumptive Republican presidential nominee talked plenty about the “Brexit” vote.  But since his event was to mark the reopening of a resort where the Open Championship has been staged four times, he first reviewed the improvements at holes 9, 10 and 11, the sprinkler system, the lighthouse, the resort hotel, and he name-checked golf legends Tom Watson, Jack Nicklaus and Nick Price. “This hole is an example,” said Trump, standing on the 9th tee. “From approximately this area, you would hit over there ... Now you’re hitting out over the ocean. And just to the right of the lighthouse, you have a green, and a lot of people think this will be the greatest par 3 anywhere in the world. And then 10 becomes a par 5,” he said. Trump quickly dispensed with a protester who emerged from the audience to hold up a package of red golf balls emblazoned with Nazi swastikas. “Get him out of here,” Trump said, a refrain that he frequently uses when protesters are escorted by security from his rallies back home. More appreciated by Trump were the two bagpipers in kilts who accompanied him. Everyone at his event knew he was about to arrive because they could hear the skirling of the pipes before he appeared from behind a grassy hill. “We’re just waiting on Donald Trump. His arrival is imminent. We can see the bagpipers,” said one TV broadcaster. Having never held public office, Trump does not have a list of political victories to tout on the campaign trail. With his business skills, Trump says, he can work to improve America’s rundown roads and bridges and negotiate better deals on issues as diverse as trade and Iran’s nuclear program. Trump delights in talking about his projects. His makeover of Washington’s Old Post Office into a luxury Trump hotel, for example, is way ahead of schedule. He is less enthusiastic about raising money for his campaign and the Republican National Committee. “I don’t like doing it,” he said. But true to his nature, Trump averred he was good at it. “You know, I sit with 20 people, and we talk, and they all hand you checks, bing, bing, bing,” he said. |

Article 2281 | Date: June 24, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump heads for Scotland to reopen a golf resort |
 | Content: GLASGOW, Scotland (Reuters) - Most U.S. presidential candidates go abroad to sharpen their foreign policy credentials. Donald Trump arrives in Scotland on Friday to reopen a golf resort. The presumptive Republican nominee, 70, visits his family’s ancestral homeland to showcase his far-flung business empire. His mother was born on Scotland’s Isle of Lewis. With a throng of reporters watching, he will make a dramatic arrival by helicopter at his seaside Trump Turnberry resort. He has scheduled a news conference on the 9th hole at noon (7 a.m. ET/1100 GMT). His visit to Turnberry, to be followed by a stop at his resort in Aberdeen on Saturday, will allow him to comment on the outcome of Britain’s vote on Thursday on whether to remain in the European Union. “I don’t think opening a golf resort gets you many foreign policy chops,” said Saul Anuzis, former chairman of the Michigan Republican Party. “But since he’s there right in the middle of the EU vote, it may end up being a PR bonanza for him.” The risk is that the real-estate tycoon, who has yet to hold public office and rates unfavorably with 70 percent of Americans in an opinion poll, will make a foreign policy misstep at a time when Republican leaders are urging a more serious demeanor. Trump has said he would be inclined to leave the EU. He has exchanged insults with British Prime Minister David Cameron, who has called the New Yorker’s anti-immigrant policy ideas divisive and wrong. There are no plans for the two to meet. His trip has baffled Republican officials who say he should concentrate on strengthening his campaign and taking the fight to the presumptive Democratic nominee, former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who is 68. Trump defeated a crowded field of opponents for the Republican nomination but has faced one controversy after another, the latest over his firing of his campaign manager this week, a month before the party convention. “His campaign has got all kinds of growing pains and it doesn’t make sense that he would spend any kind of time going out of the country,” said David Yepsen, director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at Southern Illinois University.  Turnberry is a storied course where the Open Championship has been staged four times. Trump invested $290 million in renovating the resort and golf course on Scotland’s West Coast 85 km (53 miles) southwest of Glasgow. He has portrayed his determination to build up courses in Turnberry and Aberdeen and overcome local opposition as an example of the type of leadership skills that Americans would get if he wins the White House on Nov. 8. “Well, Scotland has already been won – and so will the United States,” Trump wrote in a column for The Press and Journal newspaper in Aberdeen. An Aberdeen family opposed to his development there has threatened to raise a Mexican flag as a reminder of his proposal to build a wall along the U.S. southern border to keep out immigrants who enter illegally. The last Republican presidential nominee, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, in 2012 made a gaffe-filled campaign trip to London, Jerusalem and Poland. |

Article 2401 | Date: July 6, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump, Republican Party boost fundraising in June |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Donald Trump and the Republican National Committee raised nearly $51 million for his presidential campaign in June, after he launched his first aggressive effort at raising cash, Trump’s organization reported on Wednesday. The most recent haul dwarfed the $3.1 million the Trump campaign raised in May. That low number prompted widespread concern among Republicans that the New York businessman, a newcomer to politics who largely bankrolled his primary campaign, would be unable to compete with Democrat Hillary Clinton’s massive fundraising operation. For June, fundraising emails circulated by the Trump campaign attracted $26 million, in addition to more than $25 million raised in conjunction with the RNC through joint fundraising events in June and the last week of May. The joint funds are intended to help both Trump and candidates in other races, such as people running for Congress, in the Nov. 8 election. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, personally contributed $3.8 million in June, the campaign said, bringing the total contributions for the month to about $55 million. “We just started our fundraising efforts in the last week of May and we are extremely pleased with the broad-based support in the last five weeks for the Trump Campaign and Trump Victory,” the campaign said in a statement. In June, Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, raised $68.5 million, including $40 million for her campaign and $28 million for the DNC and state victory funds. She began July with $44 million in cash on hand. While Trump’s June total far eclipsed the candidate’s past hauls, Lisa Spies, a Republican fundraiser who worked for Mitt Romney in 2012 and raised money for Jeb Bush in the 2016 primary, said the dollar count was much lower than the $106 million that Romney, the party’s standard-bearer in 2012, brought in during the same month four years ago. “This is his low-hanging fruit, and it’s good, I’m not putting it down. But it needs to get much better than this quickly. He’s playing a game of catch-up right now,” Spies said. Clinton’s fundraising advantage has allowed her to build a vastly larger campaign infrastructure. Clinton already has extensive staff operations in the most important battleground states and has begun to run paid advertising. Trump has only a handful of staffers and has made no large television ad purchases. Trump beat 16 rivals in the Republican presidential race, but his free-wheeling style and some of his campaign pledges, such as his plan to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, have long worried some in the party establishment and he has struggled to unify Republicans behind him.  The Super PACs supporting Trump, which are permitted to raise and spend unlimited sums but are not allowed to coordinate directly with the campaign, have also struggled to get organized. While there was once a constellation of more than a dozen Super PACs backing him, most of his support has consolidated around Great America PAC, which is being run by veteran political operative Ed Rollins. The PAC is on target to raise $10 million before the July 18 start of the Republican National Convention, said Eric Beach, a top PAC official. They have already seen an uptick in fundraising, bringing in $5 million in June, doubling the May haul of $2.5 million. Great America PAC is using that money to run television ads, and plans to attack Clinton over her use of personal email servers during her time as secretary of state. The Super PAC supporting Clinton, Priorities USA, had raised $88 million by the end of May and had $51 million to spend. The group is already running ads attacking Trump. Trump got off to a slow start in fundraising, funding much of his primary campaign with his personal wealth in loans that totaled about $50 million. He announced last month he would forgive the loans to his campaign, intending to signal to potential donors that he would not use their funds to repay himself. He held his first fundraiser in late May and had several in June, including a high-dollar event in New York City and several fundraisers in Texas. Trump continues to promise to make contributions to his own campaign. In June, he launched an online fundraising effort by promising to match donations up to $2 million. Trump and Clinton both use joint fundraising agreements with their respective parties. The agreements allow the candidates to accept checks larger than the $5,400 limit that an individual can give to a campaign. Instead, the larger donations are divided up among the campaign, the national party and various state victory funds. All the money is then used to help elect the presidential candidate as well as other candidates. The campaigns and the political parties are permitted to coordinate how they spend that money. |

Article 2714 | Date: August 2, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump fires senior adviser Ed Brookover: sources |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump on Monday fired senior adviser Ed Brookover, two sources close to his campaign said. The sources did not say why Brookover was fired. A statement from the Trump campaign confirmed Brookover had left. “The campaign has parted ways with Ed, but we are thankful to him for his many contributions and appreciate his continued support,” the Trump campaign said in a statement. Brookover did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Brookover, who joined the Trump campaign in March, was appointed in June to serve as a liaison between the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee. Prior to joining Trump, Brookover served as campaign manager to Ben Carson during his failed bid for the Republican nomination. |

Article 2940 | Date: August 31, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Naked Donald Trump statue up for auction, could fetch $20,000 |
 | Content: (Reuters) - A life-sized nude statue of U.S. Republican presidential contender Donald Trump is going up for auction, with profits from the sale going to an immigrant support group. Julien’s Auctions said on Wednesday that the statue, called “The Emperor Has No Balls,” is expected to fetch $10,000 to $20,000 at the Oct. 22 auction in Los Angeles. The statue is one of a series that appeared unannounced in public spaces in New York and four other U.S. cities earlier in August. The orange-tinted likeness showed Trump with a massive belly, small fingers and some missing genitals. Most were confiscated or destroyed by local authorities and the Los Angeles statue is the only one remaining, Julien’s said. The statues were created by an anonymous artists collective called INDECLINE. A portion of the auction profits will go to the National Immigration Forum, which campaigns for the rights of immigrants. Trump has pledged to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico to keep immigrants out and to deport the millions of undocumented immigrants in the United States, should he be elected. He is due to give a speech on Wednesday as he seeks to find a balance in his immigration stance. Trump is not the only politician to be represented in the October auction of street and contemporary art. American pop artist Knowledge Bennett’s “Hillary Clinton Cojones,” featuring the Democratic White House hopeful wearing a tuxedo, is expected to fetch up to $15,000, Julien’s said. |

Article 2943 | Date: August 31, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Respect Mexicans, President Pena Nieto tells visiting Donald Trump |
 | Content: MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Wednesday told U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump that Mexicans deserved his respect, hosting him during a brief visit to Mexico City. Pena Nieto told Trump his government would work with whoever wins the U.S. election, and called for a constructive relationship. |

Article 3030 | Date: September 8, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Mexico's new finance minister spurns Donald Trump |
 | Content: MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico’s new finance minister on Thursday delivered a stern reproach to Donald Trump, saying the only thing he agreed on with the U.S. Republican presidential candidate was that his predecessor in the ministry was an excellent public servant. The comments follow the resignation of Luis Videgaray as finance minister on Wednesday after he came under fire for Trump’s visit to Mexico City last week, which Mexican diplomats said he was instrumental in arranging. Trump has infuriated Mexicans with a series of broadsides against the United States’ southern neighbor, and his hastily arranged visit to meet President Enrique Pena Nieto a week ago sparked heavy criticism of the government. Presenting the government’s 2017 budget plan just a day after his appointment, the new finance minister, Jose Antonio Meade, did not mince his words when he was asked about recent comments by Trump on Videgaray at a news conference. “I’d like to point out that the only thing, absolutely the only thing I agree on with candidate Trump is that Luis Videgaray is an exceptional public servant,” Meade said. The outspoken American real estate mogul has vowed to make Mexico pay for a border wall to keep out illegal immigrants, as well as threatening to carry out mass deportations and tear up trade treaties crucial to its economy. Late on Wednesday, Trump commented on Videgaray’s resignation on NBC television when he was asked if the United States could take a chance with him as commander-in-chief. “Well, I think absolutely,” he said. “I think if you saw what happened in Mexico the other day...I let them know where the United States stands. I mean, we’ve been badly hurt by Mexico...And if you look at what happened, look at the aftermath today where the people that arranged the trip in Mexico have been forced out of government. That’s how well we did.” In an apparent u-turn on those remarks, on Thursday Trump tweeted his appreciation for Videgaray, who was widely seen as Pena Nieto’s closest advisor in the Cabinet. “Mexico has lost a brilliant finance minister and wonderful man who I know is highly respected by President Pena Nieto,” he said. “With Luis, Mexico and the United States would have made wonderful deals together - where both Mexico and the United States would have benefitted.” Meade, a friend of Videgaray’s, was foreign minister when Trump launched his presidential bid in June 2015. He later moved to another ministry before his appointment on Wednesday as finance minister, a job he also held in the previous government. |

Article 3130 | Date: September 15, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump is a problem for the whole world, EU's Schulz says |
 | Content: BERLIN (Reuters) - If U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump wins the election in November, it would be problematic for the entire world and encourage copycats in Europe, European Parliament President Martin Schulz told a German magazine. “Trump is not only a problem for the EU but also for the whole world,” Schulz said in an interview with Der Spiegel published online on Thursday. “If a man who shows off by not having a clue and by saying that specialist knowledge is elitist rubbish ends up in the White House, a critical point will have been reached,” said Schulz, a German center-left Social Democrat. Such a scenario would mean that there is an “obviously irresponsible man” sitting in a position that demands the utmost sense of responsibility, Schulz said. He added that he was concerned that Trump getting into power would spur on copycats in Europe. “That’s why I want Hillary Clinton to win.” |

Article 3208 | Date: September 22, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Putin's close friend: Donald Trump will be next U.S. president |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - One of Vladimir Putin’s closest friends said on Thursday he believed Donald Trump would be the next president of the United States and that Western leaders were no match for the Russian president. Sergei Roldugin, a childhood friend of Putin’s and godfather to his eldest daughter, made international headlines earlier this year after his name featured in the leaked Panama Papers as the owner of a sprawling network of offshore accounts. Some Western media said the papers suggested Roldugin, 64, was looking after Putin’s money. Putin called such reports “a provocation” and said Roldugin, a famous cellist, had done nothing wrong and spent the money he earned from business on buying expensive musical instruments. Speaking to reporters in the Kremlin on Thursday before Putin bestowed a state award on him, Roldugin said: “I know who will win in America. You may check it later. Trump will win.” He went on to say that politicians changed their behavior once they were in power. “I can’t say I feel euphoria about Trump winning because he said he was with Putin and Hillary (Clinton) hasn’t said that. Putin has said he will work with either and he’s right.”  Trump, the Republican candidate, has been criticized by Clinton, his Democratic Party rival, for praising Putin as a strong leader and saying ties with Moscow should be improved at a time when Moscow and Washington are at odds over Syria and Ukraine. The Kremlin has tried to take a neutral stance on the U.S. election, saying it will respect the choice of the American people, though  Kremlin-backed TV channels have tilted their coverage in favor of Trump, whom Putin called “very talented.” Roldugin told reporters Putin was a more impressive leader than his various Western counterparts. “The one thing I’ve always admired about him is that he is not afraid to assume responsibility. He often comes under heavy criticism, but he is not afraid (of that) and says: ‘Yes that’s what we decided, that’s what I decided.’” “He is not afraid of taking responsibility, unlike many Western politicians and American politicians who, as far as I understand, can’t bring themselves to say ‘That’s what I decided and that’s how it will be.’” Roldugin listed German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Francois Hollande, and U.S. President Barack Obama as being guilty of not taking responsibility and of concealing the true nature of agreements they had struck. |

Article 3238 | Date: September 26, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Mexicans prefer Clinton to Donald Trump, poll shows |
 | Content: MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexicans favor U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton over Republican Donald Trump by a 10-1 ratio, according to a poll. The poll, conducted by Consulta Mitofsky and released last week, showed that 2.9 percent of Mexicans have a favorable opinion of Trump, compared to 30.4 percent for Clinton.  The poll comes almost a month after a meeting between Trump and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto in Mexico City sparked outrage across the country and led to the resignation of Luis Videgaray as finance minister. Roy Campos, director of the Mitofsky polling firm, said Mexican interest in the U.S. presidential election signified a change from years past.  “While in the election of 2008 the interest awakened by [Democratic President Barack] Obama was based on approval ... now the interest is because of fear,” Campos said, adding that Trump is the least popular U.S. presidential candidate among Mexicans in history. When he announced his candidacy last year, Trump said Mexico was sending rapists and drug dealers to the United States and that he would build a wall on the southern U.S. border and make Mexico pay for it. He also has threatened to impose punitive tariffs on Mexico, deport millions of migrants and ditch the North American Free Trade Agreement. The poll, which was conducted between Sept. 2 and 5, surveyed 1,000 Mexicans and had a margin of error of 3.1 percent. |

Article 3493 | Date: October 18, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Melania Trump calls taped comments by Donald Trump 'boy talk' |
 | Content: (Reuters) - Melania Trump rose to her husband’s defense on Monday, describing lewd comments the Republican presidential nominee made on a leaked 2005 video in which he bragged about groping women as “boy talk.”      Trump, who has kept a low profile during her husband’s presidential bid, gave her first television interviews since the Oct. 7 release of the tape that has shaken Donald Trump’s campaign. He trails Democrat Hillary Clinton in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 8 election. Melania Trump told CNN her husband was engaged in “boy talk, and he was led on - like, egged on - from the host to say dirty and bad stuff” in the conversation with “Access Hollywood” host Billy Bush.  NBC said on Monday that Bush was leaving the “Today” show, following his role in the taped conversation with Donald Trump. Melania Trump, a Slovenian-born former model, added in a CNN interview that aired on Monday night that she was surprised because she had never heard her husband use that kind of language before.   “No. No, that’s why I was surprised, because I said like I don’t know that person that would talk that way, and that he would say that kind of stuff in private,” Melania Trump said.  She told CNN that her husband behaved at times like an overgrown boy and that she saw his “Access Hollywood” remarks as in keeping with that behavior. “Sometimes I say I have two boys at home. I have my young son and I have my husband. But I know how some men talk, and that’s how I saw it, yes,” she said.  Trump told CNN she agreed with first lady Michelle Obama that kissing or groping someone without consent constituted sexual assault, adding: “But every assault should be taken care of in a court of law. And to accuse, no matter who it is, a man or a woman, without evidence is damaging and unfair.” In partial transcripts from a separate interview with Fox News, she said she had forgiven her husband for the comments in the tape, which was first published by the Washington Post. “Those words, they were offensive to me and they were inappropriate. And he apologized to me. And I ... accept his apology. And we are moving on.” They were her first public comments since a statement she issued after the tape’s publication in which she said her husband’s remarks did “not represent the man that I know.” Melania Trump told Fox News that her husband, a New York businessman and former reality television star, was committed to running for office even though it was difficult because he had been “in so many shows, so many tapes” over the years. Asked if it was fair for the media or her husband to bring up charges of infidelity in former President Bill Clinton’s past, Melania Trump told Fox News: “Well, if they bring up my past, why not?” After Trump denied during a debate with Clinton on Oct. 9 that he had actually done the things he bragged about in the tape, a number of women accused him of groping and kissing them without permission in incidents stretching back decades. He has denied the charges.  Asked about those accusations, Melania Trump told Fox News: “All these women are coming out and they are allegations but they are not true. Why now? Why three weeks before the election?” “I believe my husband,” she told CNN. “This was all organized from the opposition. With the details that they got, did they ever check the background of these women? They don’t have any facts.” |

Article 3550 | Date: October 25, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Highlights from Reuters' exclusive interview with Donald Trump |
 | Content: (Reuters) - Below are the highlights from Reuters’ Oct. 25 exclusive interview with Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.  “(Hillary Clinton) has no plan for Syria. Look, with her you’ll end up in World War Three. She doesn’t know what she’s doing, just like with Libya, just like with everything else she’s done. So Syria now is no longer Syria. Syria is Russia and the new Iran that we built through the Iran deal, which is one of the worst negotiated deals I’ve ever seen. So you’re not fighting Syria anymore, you’re fighting Syria, Russia and Iran, alright. Russia is a nuclear country, but a country where the nukes work as opposed to other countries that talk.” “I say the first thing we have to do is get rid of ISIS before we start thinking about Syria.”  “(Syrian President Bashar al-)Assad is secondary, to me, to ISIS.” “If Hillary Clinton ended the war and left troops behind, we wouldn’t even be fighting for Mosul right now, OK. She gave them Mosul. She didn’t know what she was doing. The woman is incompetent.” “One of the reasons we were going in was to get the ISIS leaders. But if that’s the case, why didn’t we go in as a surprise attack instead of - you know, with the element of surprise - instead of announcing three months ago that we’re going into Mosul?” “I would hope to have a good relationship with Russia. And I would hope to have a good relationship with Putin. “I’m not friends or enemies with the Russians. I have nothing to do Russia.” “(Clinton) always casts Putin as a bad guy and a bad light. If she won, how is she going to go back and negotiate with this man who she has made to be so evil. He’s not going to want to negotiate with her, number one. Number two, I don’t believe he has any respect for Hillary Clinton whatsoever.  On Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte saying he was against the presence of any foreign troops in his country: “He probably made a deal with China... He’s dealing with China and Russia so he probably made a deal with China and Russia.” “The Philippines are a very important strategic location. He has no respect or liking of Obama ...” “I think it’s a horrible thing that the United States is reduced to being thrown out of a country.” “There’s a big group of people that are in that category (of world leaders who dislike Obama) because Obama wants to focus on his golf game. He doesn’t want to take the time necessary to get along with people. It’s too bad.” Wikileaks on Tuesday released a batch of hacked emails from the account of Clinton’s campaign manager, John Podesta, that shows her Democratic presidential campaign reacting after President Barack Obama said in a television interview that he learned of her private email server through news reports. Trump’s response: “Well, I now see why the president stuck up for Hillary, because he didn’t want to be dragged into it... Because he knew all about her private server.” “This is a big thing. This means that he has to be investigated.” “Thousands of people are standing there to vote. I think those people are very, very disappointed that the leaders (of the Republican Party) aren’t helping us win.” “I know this: If the leaders were helping me, we couldn’t lose this election. It would be an impossibility.” “The media’s rigging the system. It’s never been a pile on like this ... I mean, they’re rigging the polls. The polls are ridiculous. Look at that one poll that came out, ABC/Washington Post. That was a Democratic poll. They’re rigging the system.” An ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Sunday showed Clinton leading Trump by 12 percentage points among likely voters. |

Article 3571 | Date: October 26, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump's Hollywood Walk of Fame star vandalized on video |
 | Content: LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Donald Trump’s star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame was defaced by a vandal wielding a sledgehammer and a pick-axe on Wednesday in an act captured on video, police said. Los Angeles police expect to arrest someone for the vandalism, which left Trump’s name scratched out of the star, the emblem in the middle dislodged and chips missing.      A video posted at Deadline.com, a Hollywood media industry website, showed a man wearing a hard-hat and reflective vest swinging a sledgehammer and pick-axe in the pre-dawn darkness. (To see the Deadline.com video, click on this link: bit.ly/2dWGEdf ) The area had been cordoned off with traffic barriers and cones, giving it the appearance of a legitimate work site. The Republican presidential nominee, real estate developer and reality TV star has faced several large protests during his campaign appearances in California, where polls show him far behind Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. The former host of the NBC show “The Apprentice,” Trump received his Walk of Fame star in 2007. A spokeswoman for Trump could not be reached for comment.  Los Angeles police spokeswoman Liliana Preciado at the scene confirmed investigators have video capturing the vandalism attack and she said police expected to arrest whoever was responsible. Los Angeles-based City News Service reported a man identifying himself as James Lambert Otis said he damaged the installation “to make a point.” City News reported the man said he had family members who were victims of sexual assault and had intended to remove the star, which he was unable to do, and auction it off to benefit women who have alleged Trump groped them. Trump has denied the allegations. Otis could not be reached for comment on the report. Trump drew widespread condemnations from voters and a number of Republican elected officials after a 2005 video emerged in which he was heard talking on an open microphone about groping women and trying to seduce a married woman. His star on the Walk of Fame was previously targeted. In the summer, a street artist erected a tiny wall around the star, complete with miniature American flags and barbed wire. The art piece, which was later removed, made light of Trump’s campaign pledge to build a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico. The Hollywood Chamber of Commerce administers the hundreds of star plaques on sidewalks in the Los Angeles neighborhood. They are purchased for $30,000 each. Leron Gubler, president and CEO of the chamber, said in a statement the star would be covered for several days during repairs. |

Article 3617 | Date: October 28, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump throws counter punch after Joe Biden comments |
 | Content: GENEVA, Ohio (Reuters) - Donald Trump shrugged off tough talk from Vice President Joe Biden with a verbal counter punch of his own. At a rally in Geneva, Ohio, the Republican presidential nominee on Thursday night addressed Biden’s remark last week that he would like to take Trump “behind the gym” to punish him for videotaped remarks in 2005 in which Trump boasted about groping women. “You know what you do with Biden? You go like this,” Trump said, then turned to the side to blow out a puff of air from his mouth. “And he’d fall over.” Trump is 70 years old. Biden is 73. Both have been known to delve into hyperbole. Biden had said at a campaign event for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in Pennsylvania that he is frequently asked whether he wished he had been debating Trump. Biden had flirted with running for president this year. “No, I wish we were in high school. I could take him behind the gym. That’s what I wish,” Biden said. Trump said if he had ever made a statement like that about Biden the news media would be outraged. “Can you imagine if I ever made that statement? ‘Donald trump is a bully! He threatened Vice President Biden!’ But everybody said ‘oh, that was a wonderful statement,’” Trump said. “I dream about Biden,” Trump added. “Boy, that would be easy. That would be an easy one.” |

Article 3857 | Date: November 9, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Egypt's Sisi says spoke to Donald Trump by telephone, congratulated him on win |
 | Content: CAIRO (Reuters) - Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi spoke to Donald Trump on the telephone on Wednesday, congratulating him on his victory in the U.S. presidential election and seeking to foster closer diplomatic ties, an Egyptian presidency statement said.  “The U.S. President-elect Donald Trump expressed his utmost appreciation to the president, pointing out that his was the first international call he had received to congratulate him on winning the election,” the statement said. “President Trump said he looked forward to meeting the president (again) soon.” |

Article 4142 | Date: November 22, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Obama's not-so-secret admirer: Donald Trump |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama has a new fan: Donald Trump. After lambasting Obama for months as a failed leader unfit to be president, the Republican president-elect found kinder words on Tuesday for the man he will succeed in the White House on Jan. 20 “I didn’t know if I’d like him. I probably thought that maybe I wouldn’t, but I did. I really enjoyed him a lot,” Trump said in an interview with the New York Times. Obama, a Democrat, met with Trump at the Oval Office on Nov. 10, two days after the presidential election. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said earlier on Tuesday the two had spoken again since then, citing Obama’s commitment to a smooth transfer of power, but offered no other details.  “I had a great meeting with President Obama,” Trump told the Times. “I really liked him a lot.” Obama, who had his own harsh words for Trump as he campaigned for Democrat Hillary Clinton, has made clear he would put the bitterness of the campaign aside to ensure a smooth transition of power and protect a pillar of American democracy. Trump told the newspaper that Obama talked to him about what he considered the country’s biggest problems, one problem in particular that the president-elect did not mention, according to Twitter posts by Times reporters. Trump, who has vowed to undo a number of initiatives Obama holds dear, appeared conciliatory toward the president whose U.S. citizenship he had long questioned. “He said very nice things after the meeting and I said very nice things about him,” Trump said of Obama, according to the Times. |

Article 4623 | Date: December 19, 2016 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Kremlin says not in touch with Donald Trump's team: agencies |
 | Content: MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Kremlin is not in touch with U.S. President-elect Donald Trump’s team, Russian news agencies cited Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov as saying on Monday. A senior Russian diplomat said last month the Russian government had been in touch with members of Trump’s political team during the U.S. election campaign. |

Article 5035 | Date: January 19, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Facts about the inauguration of Donald Trump as U.S. president |
 | Content: (Reuters) - With his left hand on a Bible used by Abraham Lincoln, Donald Trump will be sworn in as the 45th U.S. president around noon (1700 GMT) on Friday and give an address at the west front of the U.S. Capitol before leading a parade to the White House. Here are some facts about his inauguration: * Weather is forecast to be wet and unseasonably warm. The National Weather Service predicts temperatures nearing 47 degrees Fahrenheit (8 degrees Celsius) and rain tapering off by midafternoon. * After breakfast and a church service, Trump and his wife, Melania, will meet outgoing President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama at the White House. Following tradition, Trump and Obama will ride together down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol. * Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas will swear in Mike Pence as vice president. Chief Justice John Roberts will administer the oath of office to Trump.  * Trump will give an inaugural address expected to last about 20 minutes. His spokesman Sean Spicer said Trump will give “a very forward-thinking, very inspiring, together-oriented speech” on solving such problems as creating jobs. * As many as 900,000 people are expected to turn out for the event, including thousands of protesters. After the ceremony, the Obamas will leave the Capitol to begin their post-White House lives. Trump and Pence stay for lunch. * Starting around 3 p.m. (2000 GMT), Trump, Pence and their families will lead a parade up Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House. Inaugural organizers expect more than 8,000 people to take part, including high school and university marching bands, equestrian corps and veterans groups. * Donald and Melania Trump may step out of their limousine briefly along the parade route to wave to well-wishers. Three inaugural balls are scheduled in the evening. * Following tradition, Obama will leave his successor a letter in the Oval Office desk. Its contents have not been divulged. * While 20 minutes may seem short for an inaugural address, it would not be the shortest. George Washington’s second inaugural speech in 1793 consisted of about 130 words. * The honor of longest inaugural address goes to William Henry Harrison, whose March 4, 1841, speech contained more than 8,440 words and lasted an hour and 45 minutes. Harrison, who gave his speech in a howling snowstorm without a hat or a coat, died of pneumonia a month later. |

Article 5124 | Date: January 23, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump in first full week as U.S. president |
 | Content: (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump addressed business and trade issues on Monday. Highlights of the day follow: Trump formally withdraws the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, distancing America from Asian allies as China’s influence in the region rises. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto says his country will aim to keep tariff-free commerce with North American Free Trade Agreement partners Canada and the United States in its talks with the Trump administration. Canada has a “very special status” and is unlikely to be hit hard by changes the United States wants to make to the NAFTA trade accord, the head of a business advisory council to Trump says. Trump meets with a dozen prominent U.S. manufacturers, promising to cut regulations and corporate taxes but warning them of penalties if they move production outside the country. Trump meets at the White House with leaders of construction, carpenters, plumbers and sheet metal unions, the administration says. Trump will have breakfast on Tuesday with the chief executives of General Motors Co, Ford Motor Co and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV as he pressures automakers to boost American employment. The U.S. Senate confirms Representative Mike Pompeo as Trump’s CIA director.   Trump’s choice for secretary of state, former Exxon Mobil Corp Chairman Rex Tillerson, narrowly wins approval from a Senate committee and is expected to be confirmed by the full Senate.    The White House says national security adviser Michael Flynn held just two phone calls with Russia’s ambassador to Washington, amid reports that Flynn’s communications are being scrutinized by U.S. counterintelligence agents. The Trump administration vows to prevent China from taking territory in international waters in the South China Sea, something Chinese media has said would require Washington to “wage war.” Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi discussed terrorism and extremism in a call with Trump, and Trump applauded Egypt’s efforts on those fronts, Sisi’s office says. A White House spokesman says Trump will announce a nominee in the next couple of weeks to fill a vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court. Two Republican senators say U.S. states should be allowed to stay in the Obamacare medical insurance program if they like.  Trump dismisses allegations in a new lawsuit accusing him of violating the U.S. Constitution by letting his hotels and other businesses accept payments from foreign governments. |

Article 6810 | Date: April 6, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Is the sky blue? Depends on what Donald Trump says |
 | Content: NEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republicans generally agree that politicians should not enrich themselves while running the country. Yet most think it is okay for President Donald Trump to do so.  Democrats largely support the idea of government-run healthcare. But their support plummets when they learn that Trump once backed the idea.  At a time of already deep fissures among American voters on political, cultural and economic issues, Trump further polarizes the public as soon as he wades into the debate, according to the results of a Reuters/Ipsos poll. The poll suggests any effort to reach a consensus on key policy issues could be complicated simply by Trump’s involvement.  The survey from Feb. 1 to March 15 of nearly 14,000 people asked respondents to consider a series of statements Trump has made on taxes, crime and the news media, among other issues. In many cases, the data showed that people will orient their opinions according to what they think of Trump.  Republicans, for example, were more likely to criticize American exceptionalism – the notion that the United States holds a unique place in history - when told that Trump once said it was insulting to other countries. They were more likely to agree that the country should install more nuclear weapons, and they were more supportive of government spending for infrastructure, when they knew that Trump felt the same way.  Democrats moved in the opposite direction. They were less supportive of infrastructure spending, less critical of the judiciary and less likely to agree that urban crime was on the rise when they knew that those concerns were shared by Trump.  “I’m basically in disagreement with everything he says,” said Howard House, 58, a Democrat from Jacksonville, Florida, who took the poll. “I’ve almost closed my mind to the guy.”  Trump is not the first president to polarize the public. A 1995 poll by the Washington Post found that Democrats appeared to favor legislative action when they thought it was then-President Bill Clinton’s idea, and a 2013 survey by Hart Research Associates showed that both positive and negative attitudes about the 2010 Affordable Care Act intensified when called by its other name, Obamacare.  But previous presidents were more popular than Trump at this point, according to the Gallup polling service, and they may have been better positioned to address the public divide because of it. Gallup had Trump at a 42 percent approval rating on Tuesday. He was as low as 35 percent last week.  That leaves Trump facing a largely disapproving electorate, even as the White House signals that in the coming months it wants to pass a sweeping tax-reform package, a large infrastructure plan, and perhaps try again to supplant the Affordable Care Act.  The White House said that Trump has tried to reach out to those who did not support him during the campaign in an attempt to build political consensus.  “The door to the White House has been open to a variety of people who are willing to come to the table and have honest discussions with the President about the ways we can make our country better,” a White House spokeswoman wrote in an email.  THE HYPER-PARTISAN ERA OF TRUMP  Poll respondents were split into two groups. Each received nearly identical questions about statements Trump has made in recent years. One group, however, was not told the statements came from Trump.  The poll then asked if people agreed or disagreed with those statements. In a few cases, Trump made little to no impact on the answers. But most of the time the inclusion of his name changed the results.  A series of questions about conflicts of interest produced the biggest swings.  Some 33 percent of Republicans said it was okay if “an official” financially benefits from a government position. However, when a separate group was asked the same question with Trump’s name added in, more than twice as many Republicans – 70 percent – said it was okay.  When interviewed afterward, some respondents said they knew they were making special exceptions for Trump.  Susie Stewart, a 73-year-old healthcare worker from Fort Worth, Texas, said it came down to trust. While most politicians should be forbidden from mixing their personal fortunes with government business, Stewart, who voted for Trump, said the president had earned the right to do so.  “He is a very intelligent man,” Stewart said. “He’s proved himself to be one hell of a manager. A builder. I think he has the business sense to do what’s best for the country.”  On the other side of the political spectrum, House, the Democrat from Florida and a Hillary Clinton supporter, said he also made an exception for Trump. But in this instance it meant that House disagreed with everything Trump supported.  If Trump said the sky was blue, “I’m going to go outside and check,” he said.  It is impossible to say exactly what motivates people to answer a certain way in a political poll, said John Bullock, an expert in partisanship at the University of Texas at Austin.  Some respondents may have looked past the question and answered in a way that they thought would support or oppose Trump, Bullock said.  But he said it was also likely that others simply have not thought deeply about the issue and are looking to Trump as a guide for how to answer.  “They think of him either as a man who shares their values or someone who manifestly does not,” Bullock said. |

Article 7188 | Date: April 27, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Factbox: A report card on Donald Trump's first 100 days |
 | Content: (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump took office on Jan. 20 with a long list of promises for his first 100 days. His record has been mixed. Here are the main issues he has confronted and what he has achieved ahead of Saturday’s 100th day.  A pledge to repeal and replace the 2010 Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama’s signature domestic policy, was among Trump’s central 2016 election campaign promises. It is also one of the biggest failures of his first 100 days.  A bill in the House of Representatives was withdrawn in late March when Republicans could not muster enough votes for passage even though they control the chamber.  A reworked plan this week has drawn support from the House Freedom Caucus, the conservative bloc that helped sink the original bill. That improves the chances of a deal in the House though it is unclear if it can win enough support from moderate Republicans, and it would face tougher challenges in the Senate.   Trump repeatedly promised the biggest tax reform since the 1980s. This week he proposed legislation to slash the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent, cut the top personal income tax rate to 35 percent, repeal the inheritance tax, and temporarily slash the rate on overseas profits repatriated to the United States. The plan, however, is vague and even senior Republican lawmakers described it as offering only “guideposts” for legislative changes.  Trump’s foreign policy has been marked by major shifts. Russia: Trump spoke admiringly of Russian President Vladimir Putin during the campaign and indicated he wanted a rapprochement with Moscow. But the administration has not been able to fend off a controversy that has led to a congressional investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, including possible links between Trump’s campaign and Moscow. Trump has cooled considerably toward Putin. Putin condemned Trump’s decision in early April to launch cruise missile strikes on Syria in punishment for a chemical weapons attack by the Syrian government, and Trump said the relationship with Russia “may be at an all-time low.”  North Korea: A growing nuclear and missile threat from North Korea is perhaps Trump’s most serious security challenge. He has vowed to prevent North Korea from being able to hit the United States with a nuclear missile, a capability experts say Pyongyang could have some time after 2020. Trump’s administration aims to push North Korea into dismantling its nuclear and missile programs through tougher international sanctions and diplomatic pressure. He has pressed China, North Korea’s biggest trading partner, to do more to curb Pyongyang’s nuclear program.  NATO: Trump alarmed U.S. allies during the election campaign by calling NATO “obsolete.” In mid-April he lavished praise on NATO and said it is not obsolete.  Syria: Trump had vowed to avoid entanglements in Middle East conflicts and, in his first days in office, said he did not want the United States dragged deeper into the Syrian conflict. But he responded to the chemical weapons attack, which killed dozens of people, by ordering strikes on a Syrian air base. That won praise from allies in Europe and from U.S. lawmakers.  Trump promised a crackdown on illegal immigrants entering the United States and the deportation of illegal immigrants living in the country, especially those with criminal records. He also pledged to build a wall along the border and to get Mexico to pay for it.  The approach and strong rhetoric have had an effect with the number of migrants caught trying to enter the country illegally hitting a 17-year low in March. The number of children traveling with a guardian and apprehended at the southern U.S. border plunged by more than 90 percent in March from December. Trump insists he will build the border wall, but in order to lift the threat of a government shutdown, he gave way on his demand this week that Congress include full funding for it in a spending bill.  Trump campaigned on a promise to bar the entry of Muslims into the United States, casting it as part of the fight against the Islamic State militant group. On Jan. 27, he ordered a temporary ban on the entry of nationals from seven Muslim-majority countries, including Syria. He also indefinitely banned refugees from Syria and temporarily banned refugees from all other countries. A federal judge temporarily halted the ban, and a federal appeals court upheld that ruling. Trump issued a revised travel ban in early March, only to see it again blocked in federal court. Similarly, a federal judge this week blocked his order to withhold federal funding from so-called sanctuary cities, which offer safe harbor to illegal immigrants.  This is one of Trump’s clearest wins. His promise to select a like-minded successor to Justice Antonin Scalia, who died early last year, was kept with the nomination of Neil Gorsuch. The Senate confirmed Gorsuch despite Democratic opposition, restoring a conservative majority on the court.  Trump withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal just days after his inauguration, keeping a campaign promise. Trump had both threatened to withdraw from or renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), blaming it for an exodus of U.S. jobs to Mexico. The threats of withdrawal had jolted financial markets at various times. On Thursday, Trump extended an olive branch, saying he would not terminate NAFTA after the leaders of Mexico and Canada asked him to work on a new trade deal.   Trump also ordered a review of the causes of U.S. trade deficits, such as dumping of products below cost; unfair subsidies; “misaligned” currencies; and “non-reciprocal” trade practices.  Trump had vowed to name China a currency manipulator, meaning the United States could then impose tariffs on Chinese goods. But in mid-April he changed course and said that China was not a currency manipulator. Trump has acted aggressively on his promise to eliminate regulations that he said were hurting the U.S. economy. He issued a permit for the controversial Keystone XL pipeline. He also rescinded Obama-era climate change regulations, including the Clean Power Plan; a ban on coal leasing on federal lands; and rules to curb methane emissions from oil and gas production.  As part of a push to open up more federal lands to drilling, mining and other development, Trump ordered a review to identify national monuments that can be rescinded or resized. Legal challenges are expected.  His administration has approved a dozen measures rolling back regulations passed in the final months of the Obama administration on the environment, energy, education and financial services. Trump has pledged to keep U.S. companies from shipping jobs overseas. Before taking office, Trump used the muscle of his election victory to threaten companies about moving jobs abroad. He claimed victories with the Carrier unit of United Technologies Corp (UTX.N) and with Ford Motor Co (F.N), though Carrier still cut hundreds of jobs in Indiana and Ford said it scrapped plans for a Mexican factory because of declining demand for small cars in North America. The jury is still out on how successful he can be in keeping jobs from going overseas. Trump ordered a review of the H-1B visa program, which brings highly skilled foreign workers into the United States. He says he wants to modify or replace the current lottery system with a merit-based system for highly skilled workers.  This was one of Trump’s rallying cries during the campaign, saying he would change Washington by cracking down on the influence of special interests and political elites. He criticized Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton for her paid speeches to Wall Street bank Goldman Sachs but has named several former Goldman executives to his inner circle. He did ban appointees of any executive agency from lobbying for five years after leaving government employment and permanently banned future former appointees from activity on behalf of any government or political party abroad. |

Article 8376 | Date: July 10, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Factbox: Donald Trump Jr.'s lawyer has experience with the mob and music |
 | Content: (Reuters) - Alan Futerfas, the lawyer Donald Trump Jr. has hired to represent him in connection with Russia-related probes, has over 25 years experience in handling government investigations and criminal cases. John Moscow, a former assistant district attorney in Manhattan, described Futerfas as a “top-flight lawyer” who is both “high-powered and low-key.” Here are some facts about Futerfas: He became a top mob defense lawyer early on Miami-born Futerfas joined the law firm of veteran criminal defense lawyer Gerald Shargel after graduating from Yeshiva University’s Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York in 1987, and quickly became a partner. He left to form his own firm in 1994. In one of his biggest cases from that period, Futerfas won a new trial in 1997 for mob captain Anthony Russo after it was revealed that a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent may have  leaked information to fuel an organized crime war in the early 1990s. He expanded into white-collar cases Futerfas encountered Moscow in the early 2000s case against former Tyco International chief executive L. Dennis Kozlowski. Futerfas represented Christine Berry, Kozlowski’s art consultant, in the sales tax avoidance investigation that led to the larger case over Kozlowski’s corporate “looting.” In 2010, he represented hedge fund group HFV Management in connection with a wide-ranging probe by the New York attorney general’s office into corruption in the state’s pension fund.   He has also handled cybercrime cases Futerfas is defending Ziv Orenstein, one of three Israelis charged by federal prosecutors with hacking into JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM.N) and the Wall Street Journal (NWSA.O), among other rtargets, as part of a massive “pump and dump” scheme. Orenstein pleaded not guilty.  Another client of Futerfas was Nikita Kuzmin, a Russian national who agreed last year to pay $6.9 million for creating computer malware that made users’ bank accounts vulnerable to cyber criminals. He worked one summer for a longtime lawyer to Donald Trump In the summer of 1985, while he was in law school, Futerfas worked for lawyer Jay Goldberg, who went on to become Trump’s divorce lawyer.  Futerfas said he did not come to Trump Jr. through Goldberg. He studied at Juilliard Futerfas earned his undergraduate degree from the prestigious performing arts school. He still plays bass trombone for the Park Avenue Chamber Symphony.  (Corrects paragraph 5 to “may have leaked” instead of “deliberately leaked”) |

Article 8386 | Date: July 10, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: U.S. Senate intelligence panel wants to speak to Donald Trump Jr. - NBC |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee wants to speak with Donald Trump Jr., President Donald Trump’s eldest son, about a meeting he held with a Russian lawyer during his father’s  campaign, NBC News reported on Monday, citing a committee source. Donald Trump Jr. tweeted earlier on Monday that he would be “Happy to work with the committee to pass on what I know.” Trump Jr. has said he agreed to meet the lawyer, whom the New York Times described as having links to the Kremlin, after being promised damaging information about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. |

Article 8388 | Date: July 10, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Exclusive: Donald Trump Jr. hires N.Y. lawyer for Russia probes |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Donald Trump Jr., the president’s son, has hired New York lawyer Alan Futerfas to represent him in connection with Russia-related investigations, the lawyer and Trump Jr.’s office said on Monday. Futerfas, a sole practitioner who specializes in criminal defense, would not say when he was retained or whether he had any input into the statements Trump Jr. made over the weekend about a meeting with a Russian lawyer. |

Article 8400 | Date: July 11, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Senate Judiciary committee wants Donald Trump Jr.'s testimony |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Senator Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on Tuesday she wanted Donald Trump Jr. to testify before the panel, in a public setting, as soon as possible. The committee is one of several investigating the Trump campaign, Russia and the 2016 U.S. election.  Separately, its chairman, Republican Senator Chuck Grassley, said at a hearing on Tuesday he had sent more than two dozen letters seeking information, placed holds on nominations in the Senate to press for that information and had been meeting with staff from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s office. |

Article 8597 | Date: July 21, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Mueller tells White House to save files on Donald Trump Jr meeting: CNN |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Special counsel Robert Mueller asked the White House to save all documents related to a meeting last year between Donald Trump Jr and a Russian lawyer he was told had damaging information on his father’s presidential rival, Democrat Hillary Clinton, CNN reported on Friday.  Mueller, who leads the criminal probe into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia to sway the November presidential election, told White House counsel Don McGahn in a letter that the June 2016 meeting was relevant to his investigation, CNN reported. It cited a copy of the letter. |

Article 8623 | Date: July 23, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump Jr. adds Washington lawyer to legal team |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The president’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., has added a lawyer with congressional experience to his legal team, the lawyer told Reuters on Sunday. Trump Jr. has hired Karina Lynch of the law firm Williams and Jensen, Lynch confirmed in an email to Reuters. She did not respond to queries about what her role in the team would be. ABC News reported the hiring earlier on Sunday. Trump Jr. also hired Alan Futerfas as a lawyer after reports detailed meetings last year between Trump Jr. and a Russian lawyer. Trump Jr., his father’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort and Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and one of his senior advisers, met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya in June 2016. That meeting was held in Trump Tower in New York after the lawyer offered damaging information about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. A federal special counsel and several congressional panels are investigating allegations by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and potential connections between Russian officials and the Trump campaign. Moscow has denied any interference, and Trump says his campaign did not collude with Russia. Lynch’s biography on her law firm website describes her as having experience on the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. She was also investigative counsel to Senator Charles Grassley, according to her law firm biography. The Senate Judiciary Committee said on Friday that Trump Jr. and Manafort had agreed to negotiate whether to be interviewed by the panel in its Russia investigation. |

Article 8785 | Date: July 28, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Alien Donald Trump appears on Mexico City billboard |
 | Content: MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - A massive image of U.S. President Donald Trump as an alien intruder now towers above one of the busiest roads in Mexico City urging motorists to “Make America Great Again.” The gaudy billboard sports a caricature of Trump with a blue and red fleshless face beneath his blond hair. It went up above the two-tier inner city ring road known as the Periferico last week after failing to find takers in the United States. Backed with an American flag, the 13-by-7 meter (43-by-23 feet) placard of a finger-pointing Trump was originally intended to adorn a U.S. city, said its creator, Chicago-based artist Mitch O’Connell. “America is afraid to put up this tongue-in-cheek billboard,” O’Connell told Reuters by telephone. “Then Mexico came to mind because Trump started out his campaign by being cruel and mean to everyone in Mexico.” The White House had no comment on the sign. A real estate developer and reality TV star-turned politician, Trump sparked fury in Mexico when he launched his campaign for the presidency in 2015 with a pledge to build a massive border wall and accusations that Mexico sent rapists and drug runners across the border. At the time, O’Connell was working on a poster for a science-fiction and horror film festival featuring John Carpenter’s 1988 cult classic ‘They Live’ about aliens living incognito among humans. That project would inspire his vision of Trump. About four months ago, O’Connell set up a GoFundMe page to get the image onto a billboard. The campaign raised about $3,000. He failed in some 30 attempts at pitching the arresting image in Washington, Chicago and other U.S. cities. He said he found no U.S. company “wanted to touch it because it’s political.” In the end, the Trump billboard was placed in Mexico and will remain on display for about a month, said Jorge Alderete, an Argentine artist living in Mexico City who helped mount the billboard above the busy highway. “With every month that passed since I did the drawing two years ago, he has become more like that crazy alien,” O’Connell said. “It seems over time he became more and more like the movie, so it became more and more appropriate over time.” |

Article 8902 | Date: August 3, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: INSTANT VIEW: Reactions to grand jury subpoenas regarding Donald Trump Jr. |
 | Content: NEW YORK (Reuters) - Grand jury subpoenas have been issued in connection with a June 2016 meeting that included President Donald Trump’s son, his son-in-law and a Russian lawyer, two sources told Reuters on Thursday, in a sign that special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation is gathering pace. The sources added that Mueller had convened a grand jury in Washington to help investigate allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. election. “Bonds view this as a flight to quality while stocks had a minor hiccup. The Euro is near the highs of the day. This makes the placement of Treasuries going into tomorrow’s employment number at the recent highs, not a good risk reward.” JIM PAULSEN, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, THE LEUTHOLD GROUP, MINNEAPOLIS: “We’re going to get a fair number of these headlines. It’s going to take a while, whatever happens. Anything that represents volatility is an automatic sell (for stocks).  “I’m not even sure if beyond the volatility there’s much of Wall Street that would get terribly upset if (Trump) got impeached. That would give them (current Vice President Mike) Pence, and likely full power for Republicans and maybe some policies being enacted including health care, tax reform and a fiscal spending program. Even reinforce less regulations. “From a Wall Street standpoint I can’t say over the long term that (a Trump impeachment) would be a bad result for stocks. The uncertainty of going through it all would be a negative, but I’m not sure the market would remain lower for long, assuming all else is equal.”  AXEL MERK, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER OF MERK INVESTMENTS IN PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA: “Given that Trump’s approval rating is very low, and given that it might be all but impossible to find a jury that hasn’t heard of the allegations, odds are this jury might be leaning against Trump. This is yet a negative for the administration, and with that, if recent months are any guide, it is a negative for the dollar. And so yes, sure enough, the euro rallied on this. This is good news for the euro, this should be good news for gold…and it is ultimately a negative also for risk assets only for the reason that the Trump agenda has ever more difficulty of being realized because it does weaken the presidency. The hopes for real growth picking up are just diminishing the more headwinds the administration is getting.” CHRIS ZACCARELLI, CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER, CORNERSTONE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, HUNTERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA:    “To the extent that people are afraid something will happen to the presidency of the United States, whether that brings us closer to impeachment or serves as a further distraction for the administration, neither of those are good for the markets or a risk-on position.” “It’s more distraction for the White House and less stability … It definitely was market moving. The timing lines up perfectly.  The immediate drop was probably computer driven but people aren’t taking advantage of the dip.” JUAN PEREZ, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, TEMPUS INC, WASHINGTON DC:  “The world is paying attention and ultimately currencies are weighed to measure the stability of a country, whether you can have faith in what’s going on or not … I think with this investigation and the constant bombardment of news out of the White House the rest of the world is starting to see this image of somewhat of an unstable U.S., which is somewhat unprecedented. And now politics, even more than economic data, is really a driver of dollar weakness.” “What’s really going to weigh heavily on the dollar for the remainder of the year is that as long as this investigation continues and there is a probe and the White House continues to work on everything except the economic agenda it’s going to weigh heavily on the dollar. The reaction was certainly immediate (to the news). Looking at it long-term, is this going to affect the dollar in a negative way? Absolutely it is.” STOCKS: U.S. stocks extended losses, with the S&P falling around 0.2 percent after the news, then tracking back slightly.  BONDS:  U.S. bond yields fell to session lows.  FOREX:  The US dollar index fell around 0.17 percent in the minutes after the news, then tracked back slightly. |

Article 18504 | Date: November 29, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. to meet with House panel Dec. 6: CNN |
 | Content: WASHINGTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s son, Donald Trump Jr., will meet with the U.S. House of Representatives Intelligence Committee next week, CNN reported on Wednesday, citing multiple sources with knowledge of the agreement. Representatives for Representative Mike Conaway, the Republican leading the panel’s investigation of alleged Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion by Trump’s campaign, and Representative Adam Schiff, the panel’s top Democrat, said they could not comment on whether Trump’s eldest son was going to appear before the committee.  Schiff told reporters that he could not comment on when or if Donald Trump Jr. might appear, but described him as a key witness. The younger Trump played a central role in his father’s campaign. “Obviously, when Donald Trump Jr. comes before the committee there are innumerable areas that we’re going to be interested in. It’s hard to find a more central figure in this,” Schiff told reporters at the U.S. Capitol. Schiff also said he thought it would “very likely” be necessary to bring the president’s son-in-law and close adviser, Jared Kushner, to testify again before the intelligence panel. The panel questioned Kushner behind closed doors in July. A lawyer for Donald Trump Jr., Alan Futerfas, did not respond to a request for comment.  CNN said the meeting with lawmakers would be held next Wednesday. The House intelligence panel is one of the three main congressional committees, as well as Justice Department Special Counsel Robert Mueller, investigating the issue. In September, the younger Trump spoke privately with Senate Judiciary Committee staff. The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Republican Senator Richard Burr, has said his panel planned to interview Donald Trump Jr. in December. Trump’s son, who has denied any wrongdoing, met with a Russian lawyer at Trump Tower in New York in June 2016. Earlier this month, he released exchanges he had with the Twitter account of WikiLeaks, which released emails stolen from Democrats, during the campaign. The House Intelligence Committee will hear on Thursday from Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whose contacts with Russians during the campaign have also come under scrutiny, as well as from Erik Prince, who founded the private military contractor Blackwater and was a supporter of Trump’s presidential campaign. |

Article 18655 | Date: November 30, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: UK PM May says Donald Trump was wrong to retweet far-right videos |
 | Content: AMMAN (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Thursday that U.S. President Donald Trump was wrong to retweet a video from a far-right British group which she said was “hateful” and spreads division. Trump sparked outrage in Britain with a sharp rebuke of May on Twitter after she criticized him for retweeting anti-Islam videos from the deputy leader of Britain First. “The fact that we work together does not mean that we’re afraid to say when we think the United States has got it wrong, and be very clear with them,” May told reporters in Amman. “And I’m very clear that retweeting from Britain First was the wrong thing to do,” May said. |

Article 18728 | Date: November 30, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: UK PM May says Donald Trump was wrong to retweet far-right videos |
 | Content: AMMAN (Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Thursday that U.S. President Donald Trump was wrong to retweet a video from a far-right British group which she said was  hateful  and spreads division. Trump sparked outrage in Britain with a sharp rebuke of May on Twitter after she criticized him for retweeting anti-Islam videos from the deputy leader of Britain First.  The fact that we work together does not mean that we re afraid to say when we think the United States has got it wrong, and be very clear with them,  May told reporters in Amman.  And I m very clear that retweeting from Britain First was the wrong thing to do,  May said. |

Article 19948 | Date: December 13, 2017 | Category: politicsNews
 | Title: Donald Trump Jr. wants 'leak' probe, as Congress' Russia probes press on |
 | Content: WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s eldest son asked a House of Representatives committee on Tuesday to investigate possible leaks of information about his Dec. 6 interview with lawmakers, as congressional probes of Russia and the 2016 election picked up steam ahead of the New Year. Alan Futerfas, an attorney for Donald Trump Jr., asked Representative Michael Conaway, the Republican leading the House Intelligence Committee’s investigation of alleged Russian meddling in the election, to look into comments he said came from committee members and staff that were included in media reports. “To maintain the credibility of the Investigation, this Committee should determine whether any member or staff member violated the Rules,” he said in a letter to Conaway. A spokeswoman for Conaway declined comment. Separately, the Associated Press reported that Trump Jr. was due to appear in Congress again on Wednesday, this time before the Senate Intelligence Committee, citing a source familiar with the matter. Republican Senator Richard Burr, the committee’s chairman, would not confirm the report. Other committee members and their aides declined comment. Futerfas also declined comment. The Senate and House Intelligence panels are conducting the main congressional investigations after U.S. intelligence agencies found that Moscow attempted to influence the campaign to help the Republican Trump defeat his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. They are also working to determine whether Trump associates colluded with Russia. Moscow denies seeking to influence the election, and Trump has dismissed any talk of collusion. The two committees, sometimes members and sometimes staff, have been conducting frequent interviews with a variety of witnesses, seeking to wrap up their investigations well before the U.S. congressional elections in November 2018. Burr said he felt “some urgency” related to election security related to next year’s vote. He said he expected the Senate committee’s investigation would last into 2018, and that there were dozens more people still to be interviewed. “So it’s going to carry over (into next year), but it’s not going to carry over far unless the basket of people (to be interviewed) changes, and the only way that changes is if we learn of individuals that we didn’t know about today,” Burr told reporters at the U.S. Capitol. He said the committee did not now plan any more public hearings in its Russia probe. Separately, Sam Clovis, a former Trump campaign official, was interviewed by the House Intelligence Committee for more than four hours on Tuesday. He came to the attention of investigators after a report that he encouraged George Papadopoulos, a one-time Trump foreign policy campaign adviser, to improve relations between the United States and Russia. Clovis’ attorney denied those reports. She did not respond immediately to a request for comment about his House testimony on Tuesday. |

Article 20602 | Date: December 19, 2017 | Category: worldnews
 | Title: Britain's Prime Minister May to speak with Donald Trump: spokesman |
 | Content: LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May will speak in a call scheduled for later on Tuesday, her spokesman told reporters. The spokesman gave no further details about the call. |

